Supported by
ByDavid Waldstein
Quarterback Johnny Manziel’s brief foray into the Canadian Football League ended abruptly on Wednesday when the league instructed the Montreal Alouettes to terminate Manziel’s contract for an undisclosed violation of terms and then barred any of the league’s other teams from signing the former Heisman Trophy winner.
The Alouettes released a statement explaining that it was following orders from the C.F.L. to cut Manziel, 26, “after it was found that he had contravened the agreement which made him eligible to play in the league.”
“We are disappointed by this turn of events,” the Alouettes’ general manager, Kavis Reed, said in a statement. “Johnny was provided a great deal of support by our organization, in collaboration with the C.F.L., but he has been unable to abide by the terms of his agreement. We worked with the league and presented alternatives to Johnny, who was unwilling to proceed.”
Reed told reporters in Montreal that the Alouettes had cut Manziel only because of the C.F.L. order.
“No sir,” Reed said. “Mr. Manziel’s performance on the field showed that he had a very good upside. But Mr. Manziel violated the terms, and we all understood those terms and we have to be compliant with them.”
Before he entered into negotiations with the Hamilton Tiger Cats last March, Manziel had to agree to several strict provisions in his contract, presumably because he had a history of substance abuse and arrests, including one related to accusations that he had struck a former girlfriend. But the specifics terms of the deal were not disclosed, and the league refused to make them public on Wednesday.
“Mr. Manziel has been informed he must continue to meet a number of conditions in order to remain eligible,” the C.F.L. said in a statement last year. “These conditions, while extensive and exacting, remain confidential.”
Manziel won the Heisman Trophy in 2012 after a dazzling season for Texas A&M. He was drafted by the Cleveland Browns with the 22nd overall pick in 2014 and started just eight games in two years with them. He was released in March 2016, after revelations of charges that he had struck and threatened the former girlfriend. Manziel and prosecutors came to a dismissal agreement, and he was required to seek counseling.
Manziel wrote on his Twitter account that he hoped to play in the United States again. That could mean in one of two new development leagues. The Alliance of American Football began play this month. Another league, a revival of the XFL, is scheduled to begin play next February.
“I look forward to exploring new options within the United States,” Manziel wrote.
FREE AGENCY FOR FOLESNick Foles rejuvenated his career in Philadelphia. Now he wants to turn his success into an N.F.L. starting job — and the Eagles intend to give him that chance.
General Manager Howie Roseman told reporters on Wednesday that the team would not use the franchise tag on Foles, making him a free agent.
Foles led the Eagles into the playoffs the last two seasons after their starting quarterback, Carson Wentz, was injured, and he was named the most valuable player of the Super Bowl last year when the Eagles won the title. But the Eagles were clear that Wentz, the No. 2 overall draft pick in 2016, was their established starter.
“It’s hard when you have someone who is incredibly valuable to your organization, the most important position in sports,” Roseman said during the N.F.L.’s annual scouting combine in Indianapolis. “But at the same time, he deserves an opportunity to lead a team.” (AP)
