Supported by
Times Insider
Mr. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, was recently charged with two misdemeanor counts of soliciting prostitution and didn’t agree to an interview. His star quarterback, Tom Brady, did.
ByKatherine Rosman
Times Insiderexplains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.
Sometimes not knowing much about a person or a topic can make a reporter ideal for a story assignment.
The panic of jumping into a world you know nothing about will usually cause you to do a ton of research andreporting.
And you don’t know better than to try really hard to land interviews with people who don’t often give them, like New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady.
But it gets pretty complicated when you find yourself writing a profile on someone you’ve never met, whom you cannot interview, who has been intensely followed and written about for more than two decades and who is now at the center of a media firestorm.
That’s the challenge I faced when my editor on the Styles desk asked me to write aprofileof Robert K. Kraft, the multibillionaire owner of the New England Patriots. Mr. Kraft was charged a month ago with two misdemeanor counts of soliciting prostitution in Jupiter, Fla.
My task was to find out why a guy who is, as I ended up putting it, “a billionaire six times over and an N.F.L. team owner practically running out of fingers for Super Bowl rings”visited a strip-mall massage parlor30 minutes from his Palm Beach home.
Mr. Kraft’s wife of 48 years, Myra, had died from cancer in 2011. I thought this was an important pieceofinformation to understand his lifetoday: awash in billionaire, N.F.L.-owning privilege, but lonesome and impacted by grief.
To get started, I asked Ken Belson, who covers the N.F.L. for The Times, if he would team up with me to work on the piece. He was busy reporting on the efforts to resolve the matter before the N.F.L. owners’ annual meeting began in Phoenix last weekend. But he spent hours giving me an education in the politics, hierarchies and dramas that exist behind the scenes in the N.F.L.
Then I started contacting everyone I could think of: Mr. Kraft’s lawyers and communications reps, obviously, but also anyone I have seen him linked to in press stories — Michael Rubin, an owner of the Philadelphia 76ers; the rapper Meek Mill;officials atColumbia University, to which Mr. Kraft has given tens of millions; Larry King, who I heard was at least a casual friend of Mr. Kraft’s; and Mr. Kraft’son-and-off girlfriend Ricki Lander.
That’s a short list, and not everyone called me back. But to those who did, I made a simple pitch. I wanted to tell Mr. Kraft’s story to people like me, who didn’t know much about him beyond tabloid headlines and gossip columns.
I think his friends probably decided that a feature piece written by awomanwho is not a football fan could help humanize him. I landed on-the-record interviews with the current and former Patriots quarterbacksTom Brady and Drew Bledsoe, the musicians Meek Mill and Kenny Chesney, Mr. Rubin, Mr. King and others.
Getting Mr. Brady to call me from his family ski vacation, rather than merely accepting the offer of an email interview, took a lot of pushing and cajoling.I explained to various public relations representatives that I would write in the story that Mr. Brady submitted comments over email through a Patriots spokesman, which doesn’t convey the same level of support of Mr. Kraft as getting on the phone for an actual interview. As Patriots coach Bill Belichick has said, “You get the job done or you don’t.” I did.
Access brings its own concerns. Mr. Kraft’s friends were painting a wholly sympathetic portrait, as you would expect. But I couldn’t publish a story that sanctified Mr. Kraft and ignored the fact that he needed good P.R. to avoid damaging his most cherished and valuable asset, the Patriots. Nor could I ignore the perils of the sex trade, even if his friends made a good argument thatMr. Kraft’s case was being overly amplified by Florida prosecutors.
So I stopped asking Ken Belson to join forces with me, and started begging.
Now he and Mr. Brady both know how persuasive mynagging can be.
Together, Ken and I aimed to deliver a newsy story that humanizes a famous man without ignoring any of the reasons that he is in the spotlight.
We published the piece online Friday afternoon. Then Ken and I experienced a phenomenon that is particular to this time in history. Our story got trumped.
News that the special counsel Robert Mueller’s long awaited report on his investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election was delivered to the Department of Justice right around the time we published.
That’s a tough news cycle in which to compete. But we left it all on the field.
Follow the@ReaderCenteron Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.
Katherine Rosman is a features reporter. She covers media, social media and celebrity — and the way in which they intersect and collide. She joined The Times in 2014.@katierosman
