Supported by
ByMargaux Laskey
The New England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams kick off Super Bowl LIII on Sunday at 6:30 p.m., Eastern time. Whatever jersey you’re wearing, you’re going to need food to sustain you through the thrilling triumph or the agonizing defeat. And for those of you just showing up for the snacks, we’ve got you covered, too.
We’ve broken downour best Super Bowl recipesinto five of our favorite football food categories, from chili to wings and everything in between.
(Going to Atlanta?Here’s your game plan for eating well.)
Deep thought: If a football game is watched without beer and wings, was it ever really watched at all? We think not. Here are over20 of our best chicken wing recipesincluding classic Buffalo (made on the grillorin the oven);Thai-style peanut;Chinese five-spice;gochujang-honey; andJapanese-style with ginger, soy and chile. Don’t forget theblue cheeseorranch dressingfor dipping.
View our full collection of amazing recipes for chicken wings.
_____
Buffalo flavor is having a moment, and we’re here to celebrate it beyond wings. For the vegetarians in the stands, there’sBuffalo cauliflower,Buffalo cauliflower dipandBuffalo crudités. CreamyBuffalo chicken dipis another way to get your Buffalo-blue cheese fix. Serve it with chips and celery sticks, or do like recipe developerAli Slaglesuggests and pile it on top of a baked potato, tuck it into a hamburger roll or spoon it on top of cooked macaroni.
View our full collection of all things buffalo.
_____
With over20 fantastic dip recipes, you’re bound to find one that will please your guests. Go traditional withspinach-artichokeorsour cream and onion, or go rogue withGreek goddess (above)ora modern seven-layer dip. If you’re feeling brave, you could tryguacamole with peas(but prepare for a revolt). Make a spread of three or four dips and call it dinner.
View our full collection of delicious dips.
[Sign up hereto receive our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter in your inbox every Friday.]
_____
So maybe it’s not a traditional football food category, but for the vegan and vegetarian football fans, we havemore than 50 vegetarian Super Bowl recipes.Vegetarian tortilla soup,roasted feta with honey,Cheddar scallion dipandzucchini pancakes (above)are just a handful of the satisfying dishes to choose from, so you can just say “no” to the meat sweats.
View our full collection of vegetarian Super Bowl recipes.
_____
For chili lovers (who’s not?),hereare 14 of our best recipes, includingTexas-style,turkeyandvegetarian, plusclassicandwhite-bean chickenvariations you can make in your slow cooker. Instant Pot lovers, we’ve got yourchili, too. Eat from a bowl or serve it as a topping for hot dogs, baked potatoes or nachos. Scoop a ladleful over a pile of Fritos and sprinkle with shredded cheese and there you have it: Frito pie. Check out Sam Sifton’sHow to Cook Chili guide here.
View our full collection of great chili recipes.

