Supported by
ByKen Belson
PHOENIX — The N.F.L., in a first, will allow challenges on pass interference next season, whether flags were thrown by referees or not.
The rule change, approved by a 31-1 vote of the league’s owners on Tuesday, came about two months after a controversial non-call on an apparent pass interference play influenced the outcome of the N.F.C. championship game between the Los Angeles Rams and the New Orleans Saints.
Many Saints fans, believing that the non-call led to their team’s loss, refused to watch the broadcast of the Super Bowl between the Rams and the New England Patriots.
For one year only, coaches will be able to ask for a video review of possible pass interference plays, whether they have been called on the field or not. Those reviews can come in the first 28 minutes of each half. In the last two minutes of the halves, only replay officials may request a review.
Sean Payton, the Saints coach, said statistics showed that pass interference plays, whether offensive or defensive, were the fouls that had the biggest effect on game.
“We have essentially expanded replay to include two more plays,” he said.
The N.F.L. has never had a review option for possible penalties that did not draw a flag from the officials.
Rich McKay, the president of the Atlanta Falcons and chairman of the competition committee, said that a league review had shown that of the 50 most impactful calls made incorrectly last season, half had come on defensive pass interference plays. The highest number of penalties that were not called were on offensive pass interference, he said.
McKay said he expected teams to propose that coaches be able to challenge other plays on which penalties are not called.
“I don’t think we should be scared of replay being expanded,” he said.
N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell said that the change was an attempt to address the furor over the non-call in the Saints-Rams game.
Allowing challenges and video reviews of more plays will not make officiating perfect, he added. But “don’t let perfect get in the way of better,” Goodell said.
Coaches will still have two challenges per game, and will still get a third if their first two are approved.
Among other rule revisions, the league has now banned all blindside blocks, not just on defenseless players. Those blocks lead to about two-thirds of the injuries on punt returns, McKay said.
Troy Vincent, a former player who is now the league’s executive vice president for football operations, said banning the play would make the game safer.
“The blindside block, it ends careers,” he said. “To have that removed out of our game is significant.”
An earlier version of this article incorrectly described the way challenges are used. Coaches may use them for the first 28 minutes of each half, not in the first 58 minutes of the game. In the last two minutes of each half, only replay officials may challenge a call, not just in the final two minutes of the game.
