When Robert Kraft finishes dealing with solicitation charges in Florida, his soccer team could use some help.
CreditCreditAdam Glanzman for The New York Times
Supported by
ByKevin Draper
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Robert K. Kraft’s New England Patriots are a very good football team, having won six Super Bowl championships the past 19 years. They are 33-5 against the A.F.C. East division rival Buffalo Bills during that span.
In a cruel twist of fate, Robert Kraft’s other team that plays at Gillette Stadium, the New England Revolution, might as well be the Buffalo Bills of Major League Soccer. There was a run of dominance — four M.L.S. Cup Finals appearances in six years — without a championship, and a mostly fallow period now going on a decade. The team is below .500 (125-148-89) since 2008, the year after it went to its third straight M.L.S. Cup Finals.
Kraft has bigger concerns at the moment than the Revolution. He isfacing two misdemeanor charges of soliciting prostitutionat a massage parlor in Jupiter, Fla. (Kraft denies illegal activity.) Kraft most likely won’t face jail time, but the charges could result in a fine or a suspension or both from the National Football League, where he has become one of the most powerful owners, and from Major League Soccer, where he also enjoys a long, close relationship with the commissioner.
If his attention turns back to his soccer team, he is likely to find a house in the middle of a major overhaul.
“One of our strategies last year was to instill a new culture at the club,” said Brad Friedel, the former United States national team goalkeeper hired to turn around the team last year. He said a tear-down had been necessary. “We felt that there needed to be a completely different work ethic.”
Friedel spoke before the Revolution’s home opener last weekend, a 2-0 loss to the Columbus Crew. He praised his team’s recent signings, but he didn’t hesitate to criticize the team he took over. “We needed leaders,” he said. “We didn’t have a lot of leaders last year.”
There is no Tom Brady here.
The Revolution began play in 1996, as one of Major League Soccer’s 10 original teams. Kraft, alongside Lamar Hunt and Philip Anschutz, recruited Don Garber from the N.F.L. to be the league’s commissioner, and that tight group helped keep M.L.S. afloat in the early 2000s, when it was on the verge of collapse.
But while Kraft has been able to master the N.F.L., the soccer revolution in America has mostly passed him by.
The Revolution are one of three M.L.S. teams that still play in cavernous football stadiums. The others, Atlanta United and the Seattle Sounders, justify it by drawing the largest average attendance figures in the league, but only 13,808 fans showed up for the Revolution’s home opener last weekend. The Revolution will draw better when there isn’t snow on the ground, of course, but last year’s average attendance ranked 16th in the league.
The team has been trying to build a soccer-specific stadium somewhere in the Boston area since 2006. In the 13 years since, sites have been proposed, millions have been spent on architectural renderings, and plots of land have almost been purchased, all to eventually collapse for one reason or another. A newmultimillion-dollar training centerwill open this season, but that too will be in Foxborough, even as the Boston stadium search goes on.
“It’s about getting into a stadium that will transform soccer in our region,” the team president, Brian Bilello, said. “With that in mind, we have been patient, probably to a fault, to try and get the right project done.”
In Garber’s mind, most of the Revolution’s problems would be fixed by a new stadium. “My view is their economic model is challenging in Gillette,” he said. “It has not been able to tap into the young, millennial sports fan in the Boston metropolitan area because it is further away.”
The couple hundred die-hard Revolution fans tailgating in the parking lot before the home opener weren’t so sure. The stadium search has gone on for so long that they rarely get their hopes up anymore. A number of them said that it feels as if the Revolution are a distant priority for the Krafts.
Bilello and Garber deny that is the case. Still, the N.F.L. is a $15 billion-a-year league, and a social, financial and cultural presence far bigger than M.L.S. Kraft sits on some of the N.F.L.’s most powerful committees. His son, Jonathan Kraft, holds those roles on M.L.S. committees and seems to handle most of the team’s day-to-day business.
Last year, the Krafts spent $20 million to buy their third team, the Boston Uprising, an e-sports team that competes in the Overwatch League. The sardonic joke among some Revolution supporters is that now they’re not even the neglected second child, but something even worse: the ignored middle child.
The team declined to make either Robert or Jonathan Kraft available for this article.
Over the years, the Revolution have dabbled in signing higher-priced players, but none has proved a particularly large draw or game-changing addition on the field. The team now wants to give young homegrown players, like Isaac Angking, Nicolas Firmino and Justin Rennicks, a real pathway to first team minutes and success.
This off-season, the team also acquired Carles Gil, a Spanish midfielder Friedel hopes will jump-start the attack, along with other players who figure to make an impact, like Edgar Castillo and Juan Fernando Caicedo. Bilello said that the team’s spending on players had been ramping up and that the Krafts were giving the team all the money it needed to compete; both Bilello and Friedel promised that another designated player — the league’s highest salary classification — would arrive in either May or July, once contractual issues could be worked out. They would not reveal the player’s identity.
The team is also building a new $35 million training center adjacent to Gillette Stadium that will house both the first team and the academy. The center will feature a number of grass and artificial turf training pitches — the team’s current training pitch is covered in snow, so it has been practicing at Gillette Stadium — and the state-of-the-art facilities that, team officials hope, will help persuade new players to join.
Soccer is soccer, though, and building a winning team is mostly the same the world over. The thing that makes M.L.S. unique, according to Friedel, who spent nearly two decades playing in England and other top European leagues, is that it is constantly evolving.
“Whether there is a new rule, a new stadium, a new training ground, other new designated players, a new club, a new franchise, a new second division, a new third division,” he said, ticking off the list of possibilities, “all these things happened in this country because the league is growing.”
The last four M.L.S. Cups have been won by teams that weren’t original league members, and the last few years have witnessed a steady expansion of the league. When M.L.S. fans think of the most exciting teams now, they are often thinking of bright new teams with bright new stadiums with bright young stars, clubs like Atlanta United and Los Angeles F.C.
“At times it is easier to be new, and it is easier to be a new and improved, than it is to be a legacy business,” Garber said.
In New England, they know how true this is.
Email Kevin Draper atkevin.draper@nytimes.comor follow him on Twitter:@kevinmdraper.



Supported by
ByAndrew Das
South America’s top soccer official on Thursday rejected an invitation to take part in a proposed intercontinental tournament hosted and financed by U.S. Soccer in the summer of 2020, saying the continent’s governing body preferred to maintain the primacy of its own continental championship, the Copa América.
U.S. Soccer President Carlos Cordeiro had made the offer fora combined tournamentfeaturing South America’s 10 teams and six from the region comprising North and Central America and the Caribbean in a letter earlier this week. U.S. Soccer’s offer would have been worth tens of millions of dollars for the South American teams, their regional rivals who took part, and the two confederations governing soccer in the Americas.
But in a letter to Cordeiro dated Wednesday,first reported by the Brazilian news outlet Globo, the president of the South American federation, Alejandro Dominguez, categorically rejected the invitation to a proposed Continental Cup in 2020. Dominguez’s letter cited a lack of FIFA approval for the new event, but also a preference to prioritize the Copa América, which is the oldest international soccer championship in the world.
Last year, officials from the South American confederation, Conmebol, announced plans to shift the Copa América to a quadrennial schedule starting in the summer of 2020.
But U.S. Soccer, frustrated by a lack of progress in talks for a combined international tournament, invited South America’s 10 soccer federations to take part in a 16-team championship held in the United States. The framework of the new tournament would have been similar to the 2016 Copa América Centenario, a one-time tournament celebrating the event’s 100th anniversary that wasa financial and sporting success. U.S. Soccer sweetened its offer for 2020 with nearly $200 million in guarantees to the visiting teams and their confederations.
In his letter inviting the South Americans, Cordeiro said U.S. Soccer was offering to underwrite the new event and guarantee each nation — and both confederations — millions of dollars in appearance fees, subsidized travel and bonuses for each point earned. The champions could take home a prize of more than $11 million. Conmebol and its northern neighbor, Concacaf, would receive $50 million each to go along. Cordeiro invited Conmebol officials to a meeting in Miami next week to discuss the proposal.
U.S. Soccer did not immediately reply to a request for comment on Conmebol’s decision to decline the offer.
For the past year, soccer officials across the Americas have held discussions about creating a quadrennial tournament involving national teams from both continents. The Copa América will take place as planned this summer in Brazil, with Japan and Qatar filling the two guest spots often reserved for teams from Concacaf. Concacaf will hold its own regional championship, the Gold Cup, at the same time.
If the offer to Conmebol is not revived, U.S. Soccer is expected to press ahead with plans for a scaled-down tournament featuring national teams from other continents, potentially including Africa and Asia.

Supported by
ByReuters
(Reuters) - Manchester City skipper Vincent Kompany said diversity in club boardrooms and institutions of power could help in tackling racism in soccer more effectively, rather than just punishing individual offenders.
"The upturn in racist abuse is worrying but at the same time it's something that is good to be discussed so much, to ask ourselves the right questions," Kompany told Sky Sports.
Earlier this season, Kompany's team mate Raheem Sterling accused sections of the British media of fuelling the problem with a negative portrayal of young black players.
Sterling also encountered racist abuse during England's Euro 2020 qualifier in Montenegro in March, while there have been other cases in English soccer in recent months.
Arsenal launched an investigation into racist abuse suffered by Napoli defender Kalidou Koulibaly during their Europa League victory on Thursday.
Three Chelsea fans were stopped from entering Slavia Prague's stadium for Thursday's Europa League game after a video of a racist chant about Liverpool's Egypt international Mohamed Salah circulated on social media.
However, Kompany said the focus should not lie only on individuals who directed abuse at players.
"The issue is a little bit deeper. I look at boardrooms, I look at mechanisms of power... and I don't see a lot of diversity in that," the Belgian added.
"When you ask for them to come up with policies to change the situation, you wonder whether the constitution of those boardrooms are capable of coming up with the appropriate solution.
"I would like to see more people of a diverse background actually being the bosses, editors-in-chief, the people that actually decide on what the public agenda is.
"I think that would make a big, big difference and would have a much bigger impact than just a punishment of individuals who probably carry a lot of their own problems on the table when they come to the stadiums."
(Reporting by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru; editing by Clare Fallon)
Supported by
ByReuters
JOHANNESBURG — African soccer's ruling body has fired a senior official after he made corruption accusations against the organization's president in a potential blow to FIFA's efforts to clean up the game after a raft of scandals worldwide.
The Confederation of African Football (CAF) sacked general secretary Amr Fahmy after the Egyptian accused his boss Ahmad Ahmad of bribes and misuse of hundreds of thousands of dollars, according to officials and an internal document.
The document, sent on March 31 by Fahmy to a FIFA body that investigates alleged ethics breaches and seen by Reuters, accuses Ahmad of ordering his secretary-general to pay $20,000 bribes into accounts of African soccer association presidents.
They included Cape Verde and Tanzania.
The document also accused Ahmad of costing CAF an extra $830,000 by ordering equipment via a French intermediary company called Tactical Steel.
Furthermore, it accuses him of harassing four female CAF staff, whom it did not name; violating statutes to increase Moroccan representation within the organization; and over-spending more than $400,000 of CAF money on cars in Egypt and Madagascar, where a satellite office has been set up for him.
LATEST FIFA CONTROVERSY
Senior CAF officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Fahmy was fired after compiling the document with the allegations against Ahmad, from Madagascar, who took the top African soccer post two years ago.
CAF confirmed to Reuters that Fahmy lost his job at an executive committee meeting in Cairo on Thursday, prior to the draw for the Africa Cup of Nations finals.
It declined to give more details about the reason for his dismissal. "There's no explanation. It's the Executive Committee decision," communications director Nathalie Rabe said in an email exchange with Reuters on Sunday.
Ahmad, who is also a vice-president of world governing body FIFA, did not respond to requests for comment on the allegations against him.
Requests for comment to the soccer presidents and authorities of Cape Verde and Tanzania, and to Tactical Steel in France, were also not immediately answered.
Fahmy was replaced by Mouad Hajji, from Morocco.
The allegations against Ahmad follow a string of scandals related to FIFA's practices in Latin America and Asia in recent years, which have led to the indictment and jailing of numerous senior soccer administrators.
The corruption scandals first broke in 2015.
The CAF case is potentially problematic for FIFA president Gianni Infantino - set to be re-elected unopposed in June for a four-year term - as Ahmad is one of his deputies.
FIFA declined comment.
"The Ethics Committee does not comment on potential ongoing proceedings nor on whether or not investigations are underway into alleged ethics cases," a spokesperson said.
Ahmad, 59, served as Minister of Fisheries in Madagascar and in the country's senate before a quick rise to the CAF presidency. His accuser Fahmy, 35, was appointed as general secretary in late 2017, keeping up a family tradition that stretches across three generations.
(Reporting By Mark Gleeson; Additional reporting by Luke Baker in Paris; Editing by Andrew Cawthorne)
Supported by
ByAndrew Keh
Two years ago — in a move that delighted some in women’s sports and shocked others — Olivia Moultrie announced that she had accepted a scholarship offer to play college soccer at the University of North Carolina. She was 11 years old.
On Monday, Moultrie, the youngest girls’ soccer player to publicly accept an academic scholarship offer, became the youngest girls’ soccer player to then officially forgo her college athletic eligibility. Now 13, Moultrie announced that she had signed, in short order, a representation deal with the Wasserman Media Group, a sports agency, and a multiyear endorsement deal with Nike. In taking those two actions, Moultrie formally began her professional career.
Thrilled to welcome@USYNTphenom@olivia_moultrieto#TeamWasspic.twitter.com/TQtCroqE1Z
Moultrie’s agent, Spencer Wadsworth, declined to disclose the terms of the Nike deal, except to say that it was worth more financially than a four-year scholarship at a top university, which is generally valued at about $300,000.
“It’s just a shift in women’s sports,” Wadsworth said. “You see it more and more now where women’s soccer is catching up to the men’s side, and there’s more opportunities for them.”
Moultrie has already drawn worldwide attention for her prodigious technical skills and her family’s nontraditional approach to her nascent career. She has long played with older girls on the United States youth national team and with boys’ clubs near her family’s home in Canyon Country, Calif.
Last year, Moultrie made multiple trips to Europe to meet and train with some of the continent’s biggest clubs: Olympique Lyon and Paris St.-Germain in France, and Bayern Munich in Germany. And with the help of her father, K.C., she has maintained an active presenceon social media, often posting highlight clips to more than 87,000 followerson Instagram.
“I feel for literally almost every kid in girls’ soccer, you should go to college; there’s not a million dollars at the end of the rainbow,” K.C. Moultrie said in an interview with The New York Times last year. “I think if you’re truly, truly elite, if your goal is to be a world-class player and a pro and, in Olivia’s case, to be the best player in the world, there’s no way it’s better to play college than it is to play full time.”
Moultrie’s next step is unclear. A move to Europe is most likely impossible for several years; FIFA rules, with certain exceptions, generally prevent youth prospects from signing with foreign clubs before they turn 18.
A far more likely prospect would involve Moultrie’s latching on as a developmental player with a team in the top United States league, the N.W.S.L. But that path has its own obstacles; before she could ever sign a professional contract, the league would essentially have to create new allocation rules to deal with her unique situation. In addition, a player currentlymust be 18to play in the N.W.S.L.
Moultrie has been on her unconventional path for years. She began intense, soccer-specific training when she was 7 years old, started home schooling as a fifth grader to free her schedule for more soccer, and eventually became the first girl to play for a boys’ club team in the United States Development Academy system. She was 10 when she began attending college showcase camps, and at 11 she accepted a full scholarship offer from North Carolina.
That she gave up the scholarship was not a huge surprise. For one thing, sneaker companies like Nike and Adidas had long had Moultrie in their sights. Last year, when she was still an amateur, Nike featured her in a local promotional campaign for one of the company’s soccer cleats. On Sunday night, Moultrie appeared briefly near the end of a Nike commercial that aired during the Academy Awards.
Nike, through a spokesman, declined to comment on its deal with Moultrie.
Anson Dorrance, the longtime coach at North Carolina who had offered Moultrie a scholarship, said in an interview on Monday that he was pleased Moultrie had signed a deal for what he presumed was a significant amount of money, noting that the vast majority of women’s soccer players still struggle to make a steady living as professionals. He said Moultrie’s deal was a good development for the women’s game.
“We knew what was in the water, and we have no issue with this,” Dorrance said about Moultrie’s decision. “We lost a great player to the professional ranks, and we totally support that, if the financial incentives are good.”
Though it has long been common for boys in the United States to skip college to pursue soccer careers, it is a move that has so far made sense for only a few girls.
Just two members of the current United States women’s national team, for instance, have walked away from college scholarship offers for professional opportunities. Mallory Pugh was 19 when she did it two years ago, joining the N.W.S.L.’s Washington Spirit before ever suiting up for U.C.L.A. In 2012, Lindsey Horan joined P.S.G. at 18 after having accepted a scholarship offer from North Carolina.
But in doing so at 13, Moultrie has become an extreme outlier, even if — in all likelihood — it will be years before she has an opportunity to prove herself before a wide audience.
Dorrance said her skills were more than sufficient for her to thrive. The one, big question that remained, he said, was how much more she would mature physically.
“That’s the risk for any young kid whose ambition is to play at a high level,” Dorrance said, “or for a shoe company that is signing them young or a professional team that is signing them young.”


Supported by
Article of the Day
ByJeremy Engle
Before reading the article:
Are you a sports fan? Do you watch any sports played by women?
Did you know that the United States women’s national soccer team has won three World Cup titles and four Olympic gold medals? (You can watch highlights of the team’s 2015 World Cup victoryhere.)
This June, the team will begin the defense of its Women’s World Cup title in France. But on March 8, the team filed a gender discrimination lawsuit against the U.S. Soccer Federation.
Do you think female athletes deserve more respect? More attention? More pay?
Now, read the article, “U.S. Women’s Soccer Team Sues U.S. Soccer for Gender Discrimination,” and answer the following questions:
1.The United States women’s soccer team’s lawsuit charges “institutionalized gender discrimination.” Give three examples of discrimination from the article. What law does the suit claim has been violated?
2.How is the lawsuit a part of the broader fight for women’s sports?
3.What are some of the ways the United States women's soccer team has advocated better conditions in the past. What was been the outcome of those attempts? Why does the team have more leverage now than ever, according to the article?
4.According to the article, the team has been “a leading force in women’s sports for more than a generation.” What evidence does the author give to support this claim? How have the team’s activism and outspokenness inspired other women’s teams around the world?
5.How does the pay between players on the men’s and women’s national soccer teams differ? Why are direct comparisons in compensation complicated?
6.The article concludes with a quotation by Neena Chaudhry, the general counsel of the National Women’s Law Center in Washington:
These are the same kinds of arguments and claims that we still see at every level of education for women and girls, from K through 12 to college. It’s unfortunately a sad continuation of the way that women and girls in sports are treated in the U.S.
Do you agree? Do you think the United States soccer team’s case is part of a larger system of inequity?
Finally, tell us more about what you think:
— What is your reaction to the lawsuit? Do you think the team will win its case and why?
— Why does this lawsuit matter? Is this case just about soccer or is it bigger? Why should nonsports fans care? How will it make a difference to you?
— Should professional female athletes be paid the same as men? Does it matter if the ticket sales or television ratings in a given sport are higher for men than for women?
— Do people have a responsibility to watch and attend more women’s sporting events if they want women’s athletics to thrive? What suggestions do you have to make sure that female athletes get the respect they deserve in our society? Will you watch the United States women’s soccer team compete this summer in the World Cup?
— In a related article, “8 Times Women in Sports Fought for Equality,” Sarah Mervosh and Christina Caron profile other examples of women fighting for equality in sports. Look through the article and select one historical example you find most interesting or significant. Compare this example to the current efforts by the United States women’s soccer team. How are they similar and different? What lessons can we learn from these female athletes’ struggles?
— What are girls’ and boys’ athletics like at your school? Do female athletes receive equal treatment? What recommendations do you have to improve female athletic programs at your school?
Related Resources:
In Fight for Equality, U.S. Women’s Soccer Team Leads the Way
Pay Disparity in U.S. Soccer? It’s Complicated
Before and After Title IX: Women in Sports
Women Are Playing Today, and Leading Tomorrow
Supported by
ByReuters
VIENNA — Former New York Red Bulls and Montreal Impact coach Jesse Marsch will coach Salzburg from next season, the Austrian champions said on Monday.
Marsch, currently assistant coach at RB Leipzig, will replace Marco Rose who will leave at the end of this campaign to take over at Bundesliga side Borussia Moenchengladbach.
"Jesse Marsch is a coach who allows us to determinedly continue the path we have taken," Salzburg sporting director Christoph Freund said. "He knows our philosophy and way of playing soccer very well."
Salzburg, sponsored by the Red Bull energy drinks manufacturer, have a nine-point lead at the top of the Austrian Bundesliga which they look poised to win for the sixth year in a row.
Marsch's first job will be to try to end Salzburg's Champions League jinx. Despite dominating Austrian soccer for over a decade and reaching the Europa League semi-finals last season, they have failed to get past the Champions League qualifiers 11 times in a row.
The 45-year-old coached Montreal Impact in 2012 and New York Red Bulls from 2015 to 2018. He was MLS coach of the year in 2015.
(Reporting by Brian Homewood, editing by Ed Osmond)
Doncaster Belles used to be women’s soccer royalty, champions of England and a fixture in the F.A. Cup final. Now, as investment floods into the women’s game, a new history is being written without them.
CreditCreditAndrew Testa for The New York Times
Supported by
ByRory Smith
ROSSINGTON, England — Over the years, Sheila Edmunds has done pretty much everything for the Doncaster Belles. Half a century ago, she was among the group of friends who founded the club. For 25 years, she wore the team’s No. 8 jersey and, for a while, its captain’s armband.
When she retired, she filled in wherever required: welfare officer, first-aid practitioner, physiotherapist. Now her official title is president and general manager. If that sounds like an executive role, an honorary sinecure, it is not.
An hour or so before a game at the windswept stadium that the Belles now call home, Edmunds can be found in the simple wooden cabin that passes for a ticket office. At her back is an electric heater, on futile full blast to stave off the bitter cold. She welcomes fans handing over the £5 entrance fee warmly, as if each one is an old friend.
In quiet moments, she might help out at the trestle table that serves as the Belles’ merchandising arm. After kickoff, she keeps one eye on the game as she totals up the day’s takings; it is easier this way, she says. She is the one, after all, who will have to enter it all into the club’s accounts later.
There is more money in women’s soccer in England than there has ever been. Last summer, the country’s highest tier — the Women’s Super League (W.S.L.) — became, for the first time, fully professional, with a broadcasting arrangement with the BBC. England’s biggest clubs, including Manchester City, Chelsea and Arsenal, all have invested heavily in their women’s teams in recent years, spending not just on homegrown players but for high-profile imports, too. Manchester United, even, has finally joined the fray: It launched its women’s team, in the second-tier Championship, last year, and immediately set about recruiting an all-star roster.
The effect has been seismic, not just in terms of results — Manchester City reached the Champions League semifinals the last two seasons and England’s national team finished third in the 2015 Women’s World Cup — but in terms of interest, too. More than 45,000 people attended last season’s women’s F.A. Cup final, and two million more watched it live on television.
Little or none of that growth, though, has found its way to Doncaster; or, more accurately, Rossington, a small village on the outskirts of the town, where Doncaster Rovers Belles play their home games in the third tier of English women’s soccer.
Crowds rarely number much more than a hundred here. There are no television cameras. Last summer, the club’s biggest sponsor walked away; its income now does not stretch far beyond the cash Edmunds sifts through in front of that electric heater.
And yet this is the team that has, arguably, done more for women’s soccer in England than any other, a club that was synonymous with the sport for decades. In the 1980s and early 1990s, long before the professional clubs showed any interest in women’s soccer, the Belles were its pre-eminent force.
Between 1983 and 1994, the Belles reached 11 of 12 women’s F.A. Cup finals, and won the trophy six times. The team won the first ever women’s national league title, in 1992, and regained the crown in 1994; it would finish as runners-up seven times in the following years.
Back then, its players formed the backbone of the English national team. “At one point, we had seven or eight players in the squad,” said Gillian Coultard, who spent 21 years playing for the Belles in the team’s heyday, and picked up 119 appearances for England. For a long time, she was one of five players to have made a century of appearances for her country. The others were Bobby Moore, Bobby Charlton, Peter Shilton and Billy Wright. “It was a good quiz question,” she said.
Doncaster, of course, was proud of the Belles: A small, tight-knit town on the edge of the South Yorkshire coalfield, it is not a place that attracts much national attention, or frequently enjoys much sporting success. The Belles changed that. “We won so much,” Coultard said. “The cup finals were on television. We felt like we represented Doncaster, and South Yorkshire. We kept the town at the pinnacle.”
Edmunds remembers the club being asked to send representatives to have “afternoon tea with the Queen and Prince Philip” when they visited Doncaster. The players were guests of honor at the town’s Mansion House, the ornate Georgian home of the local authorities, on several occasions.
“We never had any sexist stuff,” she said. “South Yorkshire people aren’t like that. It’s the sort of place where they acknowledge what people can do. They get behind you. There was a real pride at what we achieved.”
There was broader, cultural recognition, too. The writer Pete Davies spent a year with the team in the early 1990s; his subsequent book, “I Lost My Heart to the Belles,” coupled with the club’s success, made the name famous. The playwright Kay Mellor used the book as source material for “Playing the Field,” a BBC drama that ran for five seasons in the 1990s.
To many, at a time when women’s soccer received scant investment and commanded little attention, the Belles were the sport’s most prominent face. “They were the epitome of women’s football,” said Mike Blackham. Like most of the people who go to watch the Belles now, Blackham and his wife, Jane, have a personal connection to the club: A friend plays for the first team.
That is testament to how the club’s horizons have retracted in recent years. As the fortunes of women’s soccer have risen, those of the Belles have ebbed. “The women’s game has changed,” Edmunds said. “It is more financially driven. We have been left behind a little bit.”
In 2013, when the Football Association, the sport’s governing body in Britain, expanded the Women’s Super League to two divisions, Doncaster Belles were demoted to the second tier and Manchester City’s women’s team — far younger but, crucially, aligned with a Premier League behemoth — were promoted in their stead. Vic Akers, then the manager of Arsenal Ladies, described the decision as “morally scandalous.”
Doncaster was promoted back to the top flight in 2015, but lasted only a season before being relegated again. It won the second division last year, its first trophy since 1994, but did not take up its place in the top tier: The F.A. had changed the licensing criteria, and the Belles — lacking a headline sponsor and a major men’s team to bankroll the club — could not meet the new requirements. “Financially, we could not do it,” Edmunds said.
All but two members of the championship-winning side departed, many for Manchester United’s new women’s team. Neil Redfearn, the manager, left for Liverpool. The Belles decided against using the Keepmoat Stadium, the neat, modern venue that is home to Doncaster Rovers, the men’s team with which they have a mostly symbolic alliance, and set up instead in Rossington, where the two stands are little more than a few steps covered by a roof. Smaller surroundings, Edmunds said, would not be as “daunting” for the young players that now comprised the team.
In Doncaster, the Belles’ fame endures, and so does the affection and esteem in which they are held. Edmunds, for example, is well-known enough in the town that, a few years ago, when she was awarded an honor in London for her contribution to sport, the local paper afforded her the ultimate accolade: It referred to her by only her first name.
Blackham, who coaches a local junior team, finds that while young boys dream of Premier League stardom, the girls tend to have a different ambition. “They don’t talk about playing for Manchester City or Chelsea or Arsenal,” he said. “They want to play for the Belles.”
There is some regret at the club’s diminished status — “the demise of it is very sad, because it was so unique,” said Coultard — but there is no resentment of the game’s authorities, no lingering anger at the Football Association for failing to curate the most famous women’s team of all. “That era has gone,” Edmunds said. “We do not want people to forget that history, because so many people put so much into it, but we do not dwell on it.”
Instead, she said, she takes satisfaction in seeing all of the players who came through the club’s ranks who have gone on to play professionally, to play in Europe, to play for their country.
The golden age of the Belles may have come and gone, Edmunds said, but the club still has a role to play. “You look at those players and think we must be doing something right,” she said. “We still contribute. There is real pride in that.”
Those Belles may be wearing different jerseys now, playing for different clubs, but they still bear the stamp of the club she helped to create. They all add a little more sheen to the legacy. In Edmunds’s eyes, they are still Belles. “That’s what we have always said,” she said, turning back to the day’s takings. “Once a Belle, always a Belle.”
Rory Smith is the chief soccer correspondent, based in Manchester, England. He covers all aspects of European soccer and has reported from three World Cups, the Olympics, and numerous European tournaments.@RorySmith
Supported by
ByIliana Magra
LONDON — The wreckage of the small plane carrying the Argentine soccer striker Emiliano Sala and his pilot, David Ibbotson, has been found on the seabed in the English Channel, a shipwreck hunter said on Sunday, days after parts of the aircraft’s seat cushions were discovered on a French beach.
The plane was found using an underwater drone that recorded video of the wreckage, including the body of one of the victims, the British government said on Monday. The video showed the aircraft registration number on the fuselage, confirming that it was the missing plane.
“The families of Emiliano Sala and David Ibbotson have been notified by police,” David Mearns, the shipwreck hunter whose team had been searching for the Piper Malibu plane, said onTwitter.
The families of Emiliano Sala and David Ibbotson have been notified by Police. The AAIB will be making a statement tomorrow. Tonight our sole thoughts are with the families and friends of Emiliano and David.#EmilianoSalas#NoDejenDeBuscarAEmilianoSala
The single-engine, propeller-driven aircraftdisappeared over the English Channelafter departing Nantes, a city in western France, at 8:15 p.m. local time on Jan. 21, headed for Cardiff, the capital of Wales.
Mr. Mearns, a maritime scientist,told the British broadcaster Sky News on Sunday eveningthat the vessel “was located earlier this morning by my crew onboard the Morven,” referring to the search ship FPV Morven. Mr. Mearns’s company, Blue Water Recoveries, had been collaborating with the British Air Accidents Investigation Branch, or A.A.I.B., scanning the sea floor using sonar.
A ship commissioned by the air accidents agency, the Geo Ocean III, launched a remotely operated vehicle, or R.O.V., to view the discovery at close range, the agencysaid in a statementon Monday.
“Based on analysis of R.O.V. video footage, the A.A.I.B. investigators on board the vessel concluded that the object is wreckage from the missing Piper Malibu aircraft, registration N264DB,” it said. The underwater drone “carried out a further search of the area overnight, but did not identify any additional pieces of wreckage.”
“Tragically, in video footage from the R.O.V., one occupant is visible amidst the wreckage,” the agency added, but it did not specify whether the body was Mr. Sala’s or Mr. Ibbotson’s. “The A.A.I.B. is now considering the next steps, in consultation with the families of the pilot and passenger, and the police.”
Mr. Sala’s family had commissioned a private search after the authorities ended their search of the Channel’s surface and small islands on Jan. 24. David Barker, the harbormaster of the island of Guernsey, a self-governing British dependency off the coast of France, said in a statement at the time, “The chances of survival at this stage are extremely remote.”
Mr. Sala, 28, a prolific goal scorer for Nantes in the French league, had recently been transferred to the Premier League club Cardiff City and was scheduled to practice with the Welsh team for the first time the next day.
The flight went through rough, wintry weather over the Channel, and Mr. Sala left a voice message for friends and relativessaying that he was afraidthat the plane would break apart.
After the authorities ended their search, Romina Sala, Mr. Sala’s sister, pleaded with the authorities not to call it off.
“Please, please, please don’t stop the search,” Ms. Sala said at a news conference in Cardiff, fighting back tears.
She said she knew in her heart that Mr. Sala was still alive somewhere in the Channel.
A Facebook message to Mr. Sala’s sister seeking comment was not immediately answered on Sunday night.
People from all over the world — including soccer stars like Kylian Mbappé, a member of the French national team that won the World Cup last year — chipped in to help the family’s search.
Sport Cover, a Paris-based soccer agency, starteda GoFundMe pageon Jan. 25 that by Sunday evening had raised more than 371,000 euros, about $424,000.
Geo Ocean III departed Ostend, a coastal city in Belgium, on Sunday morning to begin a three-day underwater search,the A.A.I.B. tweeted. The search area was to cover about four square miles, according to the BBC.
On Sunday evening, after the wreckage was discovered in the English Channel, Mr. Mearns told Sky News: “This is about the best result we could’ve hoped for the families, but tonight they’ve heard devastating news.”



Supported by
ByHannah Beech
BANGKOK — The global sports market is worth hundreds of billions of dollars a year. Now, this powerful industry is coming together to promote an unlikely cause: human rights.
Since late November, aBahrain-born soccer playerfor a minor team in Australia has been held in detention in Thailand. The player, Hakeem al-Araibi, 24, is not a famous athlete. He has no lucrative sponsors.
But he has spoken out against one of the most powerful men in international soccer, who is also a member of the ruling family of Bahrain. His testimony of torture at the hands of Bahrain’s repressive government earned him refugee status in Australia, which determined that he faced credible threats of persecution should he return to the Gulf state.
Still, over the past week, Mr. Araibi has collected an impressive list of supporters in the world of international sports.
Fatma Samoura, the secretary general of FIFA, the international body governing global soccer, has called for Thailand to return him to Australia “as a matter of urgency.” So has Thomas Bach, the head of the International Olympic Committee, who raised the issue with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
On Tuesday, Praful Patel, a vice president of the Asian Football Confederation, issued a statement asking Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha of Thailand to ensure Mr. Araibi’s return to his adopted home.
The head of the Asian Football Confederation is Sheikh Salman bin Ebrahim al-Khalifa, the Bahraini official whom Mr. Araibi accused of not stopping the persecution of athletes in his charge. Sheikh Salman also serves as a FIFA vice president.
Such a collection of statements of support is rare, said Mary Harvey, the chief executive of the Center for Sports and Human Rights, which assembles governments, sports bodies, corporate sponsors and nongovernmental groups to ensure the role of human rights in sports.
“Hakeem is a historic test case, because it’s the first time that we’ve seen these big, powerful sports bodies all come together publicly to address the fate of a single person,” said Ms. Harvey, who was a member of the United States national soccer team and a FIFA executive.
Sports has been buffeted by growing concerns about the hidden human costs of mega-events, like the Olympics and the World Cup, that have been used to bring international glory to authoritarian governments. Hundreds of foreign laborers, mainly from South Asia, have died in thebuilding of stadiumsand other infrastructure for the 2022 men’s soccer World Cup in Qatar, according to the International Trade Union Confederation.
Although the Qatari government has pledged to improve the rights of its migrant work force, some construction workers and foreign athletes continue to work in what is essentiallyindentured servitude, human-rights monitors say.
Last year’s hosting of the men’s soccer World Cup by Russia was marred by racism and homophobia controversies. Both bids for the World Cup by Qatar and Russia were tarnished by a series of corruption scandals that cleared out a significant portion of FIFA’s leadership ranks. With corporate sponsors nervous about a backlash from sports fans, FIFA unveiled a series of reforms aimed at bettering its human rights.
In January, Brendan Schwab, the executive director of the World Players Association, which represents 85,000 professional athletes worldwide, wrote an urgent legal request on the “severe violation of the human rights” of Mr. Araibi, which was submitted to FIFA. The brief was also signed by unions representing professional soccer players.
“Hakeem’s case is about a football player, it’s about a human-rights defender, it’s about a refugee and it’s about global sport’s ability to uphold its stated commitment to human rights,” Mr. Schwab said.
Although FIFA now has binding human-rights policies, they are largely untested. Even though FIFA’s human rights advisory board was formed two years ago, the request on Mr. Araibi’s behalf was the first time such a formal submission had been made.
When Mr. Araibi traveled to Bangkok on Nov. 27 with his wife for a belated honeymoon, the Thai authorities were waiting for him at the airport.
Initially, Thai officials said Mr. Araibi had been detained based on an Interpol request alerting the immigration authorities to fugitives of justice. But Interpol quickly lifted that request because such alerts, called red notices, are not supposed to apply to refugees.
Nevertheless, Bahrain has formally asked Thailand for Mr. Araibi’s extradition so he can return to face a 10-year prison sentence for a conviction in absentia on charges that he burned a police station, among other convictions.
Last week, the extradition request was passed on to the Thai attorney general’s office, said Busadee Santipitaks, a spokeswoman for the Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs, meaning that Mr. Araibi’s fate could be decided in a matter of days.
Mr. Araibi was playing in a televised football match when the police station he was supposed to have attacked was burned. Bahrain has racked up thousands of questionable convictions related to its crushing of its Arab Spring movement in 2011, when hundreds of thousands of Bahrainis joined street protests, human rights groups say.
Thailand, which has not signed an international convention on refugees, has a history of extraditing human rights defenders to countries they have fled, like China or Bahrain, where they are likely to face imprisonment or torture.
In early January, however, a Saudi teenager who had flown to Bangkok and feared death from her family, avoided deportation and was eventually allowed to travel on to Canada, where she was granted asylum. Herreleasefollowed an outcry on social media.
In 2016, Sheikh Salman, who has refused to answer questions about Mr. Araibi’s detention in Thailand, ran for the FIFA presidency. But his front-runner status diminished in part because of questions raised about Bahrain’s record of imprisoning protesters, including members of the national soccer team.
Instead, Gianni Infantino, who was born in Switzerland, won the top job. Both Mr. Infantino and Sheikh Salman are up for re-election to their respective posts this year.
Running for the first time for a vice-presidential post in the Asian Football Confederation is Somyot Poompanmoung, the leader of the Football Association of Thailand. A former national police chief, Mr. Somyot faced a scandal last year after it emerged that he had received large loans from a fugitive brothel owner implicated in human trafficking.
Thailand has mulled the possibility of jointly bidding for the World Cup in 2034 with another Southeast Asian nation. After the tainted bids by Russia and Qatar, updated FIFA guidelines now require that human rights be considered as a factor in deciding which country wins the right to host the prestigious tournament.
“Sports, like the Olympics and football, should and can bring social change,” said Craig Foster, a former captain of the Australian national soccer team who has lobbied on Mr. Araibi’s behalf.
“We’ve got to hold governments accountable and say, ‘If you want the great honor of hosting these major sports tournaments, then you have to accept global human rights standards,’” he said.


Supported by
ByReuters
STOCKHOLM — With 30,000 tickets sold for their friendly against Germany in Stockholm on Saturday, Sweden's female players have called for unity to tackle inequalities between men and women in soccer, especially when it comes to money.
Huge crowds have attended women's games in England, Italy and Spain recently and defender Nilla Fischer told Reuters that fans, players, sponsors and governing bodies would all have to work together to ensure better pay for female players.
"I know that if I'd played in the (German men's) Bundesliga for six years, I wouldn't have any financial worries," Fischer said at the team hotel in Stockholm.
"In terms of percentages, you can't really compare. What they maybe make in an hour, I make in a year," the 34-year-old VfL Wolfsburg player added.
The comments come after the U.S. women's team, the world champions, launched a lawsuit against their own federation last month alleging gender discrimination, which includes complaints about wages.
Goalkeeper Hedvig Lindahl, who plays for English club Chelsea, said players campaigning for equality in the women's game would continue to do so once they've hung up their boots.
"When we one day quit, we will fill places in these (soccer) organizations and keep the fight going forward. I do think it needs to be a kind of a public pressure, that we don't accept the way it is now," Lindahl told Reuters after a training session at the Friends Arena.
"I do however see the difficulties with these big organizations, FIFA especially, because it's their members that vote. I think we have to tackle big issues on the world stage in order for it to really change," she added.
Fischer, who gave a fiery speech on the issue when receiving the Diamond Ball as Sweden's best female player in 2018, added that everyone in the game has a role to play.
"I think it's about the whole - I don't think it's about one organization or one clique or one part that is responsible," she said.
Sweden are one of the 24 teams set to compete at the Women's World Cup in France from June 7-July 7.
(Reporting by Philip O'Connor; Editing by Christian Radnedge)
Supported by
ByReuters
SAO PAULO — Brazilian soccer legend Pele arrived home in Brazil after a spell in a French hospital on Tuesday and was immediately taken to a Sao Paulo clinic for further urinary tests, doctors said.
"At the moment, he is undergoing admission exams and his health is good," doctors at the Israelite Albert Einstein Hospital said in a brief statement.
Considered by many as the game's finest player and the only man to have won three World Cups, Pele was hospitalized in France last Wednesday after suffering a fever following an event in the city with French World Cup-winner Kylian Mbappe.
The 78-year old former Santos player was diagnosed as suffering from a urinary infection and was treated with antibiotics and released on Monday.
He arrived back in his home state on Tuesday morning.
Doctors said the urinary infection had been cured but did not give more details about what were believed to be routine tests at the hospital where he has been treated on several occasions previously.
(Reporting by Andrew Downie; Editing by Hugh Lawson)
Supported by
lens
Fethi Sahraoui has been photographing young Algerians who rush to local stadiums for biweekly soccer matches and for a chance to be heard.
Photographs byFethi Sahraoui
Text bySara Aridi
Arms raised high. Crowds united in song. Riot police armed with batons. These images could have been taken at political rallies or protests. But they weren’t. They were from soccer matches in northwestern Algeria.
The sport is so popular in the North African nation and the region, that it’s been given the Marxist treatment: “We call it the opium of the people,”Fethi Sahraouisaid. Since 2015, Mr. Sahraoui has photographed roughly 30 games in his hometown, Mascara, and in neighboring Relizane. The result is “Stadiumphilia.”
During soccer season — which runs from late August until the end of May — young men storm stadiums to watch local teams face off in biweekly matches. Unlike those fans, Mr. Sahraoui isn’t concerned with the athletes. He turns his lens toward the surrounding commotion, the fervent faces in the stands.
The atmosphere is electric, to say the least. Algerian law prohibits anyone under 18 to enter the stadiums without a guardian, Mr. Sahraoui said. But that doesn’t stop young boys from trying to jump over fences to see the action.
On the surface, the takeaway is that Algerians are soccer fanatics. But Mr. Sahraoui sees beyond the entertainment. He says the stadiums have become platforms for young men to find a sense of brotherhood and to escape the pressures of daily life. After spending years among those crowds, he adds,he can’t help but link the energy of those games to current protests.
In February, President Abdelaziz Bouteflika announced that he would run for a fifth term. Algerians had been living under his rule for 20 years, and they had had enough. Thousands of demonstratorshave been taking to the streetsdemanding his resignation, citing problems like corruption and stifling unemployment.
Life is particularly rough for Algerian youth. According to theInternational Monetary Fund, the unemployment rate among Algerians between the ages of 15 and 24 is more than 28 percent. And a third of youth are either unemployed or not in school. “We need to admit that what’s happening in Algeria, this popular movement or popular uprising, it’s orchestrated mainly by youth,” Mr. Sahraoui said.
He feels that before the protests, young Algerians took out their frustrations in the soccer stadiums. Their songs and chants were highly political and socially conscious: They would imagine better lives or call for local politicians to step down. Some would sing tribute songs to friends who had perished trying to cross the Mediterranean, Mr. Sahroui said.
Politics has long been intertwined with the sport. In one image, a boy peers out from behind a poster of Zougari Taher, a man who died during the Algerian war for independence from France in the 1950s and ’60s. Locals herald Mr. Taher as a martyr, and the stadium in Relizane is named after him.
With the recent protests, Algerians have turned to the streets. “I’m happy for them because it’s a larger space and a lot of people are hearing them and paying attention to them,” Mr. Sahraoui said. The streets also allows for more unity. Women have openly taken part in the demonstrations, while soccer hasalways been a “manly” sportin the country, Mr. Sahraoui said. He wanted this essay to focus on young fans, and most if not all of those happened to be boys.
Mr. Sahraoui couldn’t exactly see himself in those youngsters. Growing up, his family thought the games were dangerous and prohibited him from going. “Working on this project, it was like a delayed exploration of this universe,” he said. “I went there as a photographer, but there was the young child who was inside me.”
Fun fact: These images — and all of his personal projects — were taken with smartphones. But he says if no one notices, “it’s a good sign.” He feels at ease with the device. Plus, carrying a larger digital camera would have drawn the curiosity of riot police, while a phone helped him blend in with the crowds.
“I think that a photographer will remain a photographer,” he said. “Even with an iPhone.”
Follow @nytimesphotoand@_SaraAridion Twitter. You can also find us onFacebookandInstagram.
Supported by
ByDavid W. ChenandMarc Tracy
As Rudy Meredith was inducted into the Connecticut Soccer Hall of Fame in January to honor his 24-year run as Yale women’s soccer coach, he sprinkled his hallmark humor and humility throughout his remarks.
He recounted how his wife was on the opposite sideline for the University of Hartfordwhen they metin the early 2000s. And he saluted several people in the audience while repeatedly expressing “thankfulness,” recalled Bill Duffy, a middle school principal and soccer lifer who served as master of ceremonies.
There was nothing in Mr. Meredith’s words, Mr. Duffy said, “that would refer to anything that was going on.”
Despite Mr. Meredith’s placid demeanor, people who knew him best had recently begun to detect changes in his behavior. He seemed to be more anxious. He appeared less enthusiastic about soccer, even before he resigned as Yale’s coach in November. He paid little attention to recruiting. He played poorly in pickleball, a paddle sport he usually excelled at.
In hindsight, those hints of stress and fatigue coincided with revelations that Mr. Meredith, 51, had been the linchpin of a sprawling federal investigation into corrupt college admissions schemes thatexploded into public view this week.
At the heart of the scandal was a consultant, William Singer, who took $25 million to help fix exam scores or fraudulently misclassify prospective students as recruited athletes to boost their chances of being admitted to elite colleges. But the person who led federal authorities to Mr. Singer, according to court papers filed on Tuesday, was Mr. Meredith.
In a Boston hotel on April 12, 2018, Mr. Meredith solicited a $450,000 bribe from the parent of a prospective college student in exchange for saving a Yale soccer recruitment spot for his daughter. Mr. Meredith took $2,000 from the parent, and directed the parent to wire future payments to a bank account in Connecticut. But the F.B.I. was secretly recording the conversation, the charging documents said. Then six days later, the parent, who was working with the authorities, wired $4,000 to Mr. Meredith from a bank account in Boston that the F.B.I. controlled, giving the government evidence of wire fraud.
With the authorities on to Mr. Meredith, he told them about a deal he had struck in November 2017, when Mr. Singer had introduced him to a man who wanted his daughter to attend Yale. Mr. Singer helped doctor the application to make it seem as though she was the co-captain of a prominent club soccer team in Southern California, even though she did not play at that level, according to the government documents. But Mr. Meredith told the admissions office he wanted to recruit her, and after she was admitted, Mr. Singer paid the coach $400,000.
Late Friday, Yale released a statement in which it said one student involved in the scheme was admitted and is attending now, while the other was denied admission. In the statement, Peter Salovey, the university president, called the criminal actions “an affront to our community’s deeply held values of fairness, inclusion and honesty.” Mr. Salovey said the university was starting an internal investigation into its admissions process.
Prosecutors said on Tuesday that Mr. Meredith had agreed to plead guilty to wire fraud, honest services wire fraud and conspiracy to commit honest services wire fraud.
Mr. Meredith did not respond to a request for comment. Paul Thomas, Mr. Meredith’s lawyer, who works ata New Haven firm founded by Felice Duffy, a former Yale soccer coachwho later became a federal prosecutor and lawyer, declined to comment.
It was a dramatic fall for a man considered to be a Yale institution. Mr. Meredith started as an assistant coach in 1992, rose to head coach in 1995 and led the team to its first unshared Ivy League title in 2005.
The charges blindsided virtually everyone who knew Mr. Meredith, according to interviews with more than a dozen former players and others connected to Yale or soccer. Mr. Meredith was generous and well liked, and did not appear to have any health, financial or personal problems.
“I’m both appalled and sympathetic — I would never have thought that he was capable of doing this,” said Sharon Eisen, a veterinarian who became friendly with the Merediths in recent years through pickleball, in which Mr.Meredithis anational-level player and coach. “On the one hand, I know them and like them personally. But on the other hand, I’ve lost all respect. So greedy. So immoral.”
Mr. Meredith grew up modestly in the Rockville, Md., area, and was an all-state soccer player at Richard Montgomery High School. But he failed classes while at Montgomery College, and almost quit school. After undergoing tests at the urging of his coach andbeing found to have a learning disability, he turned his life around, and ultimately transferred to Southern Connecticut State. The university’s men’s soccer program was then a Division II powerhouse. Mr. Meredith played on the 1990 N.C.A.A. championship team, then embarked on a career coaching soccer and teaching physical education.
Robert Kehoe, director of college programs for the National Soccer Coaches Association of America, said he first met Mr. Meredith in 1996 and worked closely with the Yale women’s team for the next several years as part of a development workshop he used to conduct.
“He had a lot of credibility because he was a very good player in his own right,” Mr. Kehoe said.
Mr. Meredith quickly fostered an energetic atmosphere. He required players to wear costumes for Halloween practice. He bought bagels and extra food on his own dime for long bus rides to away games, while good-naturedly enduring the film “Dirty Dancing” at his players’ behest.
Yale enjoyed success in the mid-2000s, with the 2005 team reaching the third round of the N.C.A.A. tournament, knocking out third-seeded Duke in the process. Mr. Meredith coached several Ivy League players of the year and anall-Americansecond-teamer who was profiled by ESPN. Meredith Speck, class of 2015, was the first Yale player in the National Women’s Soccer League, according toYale's alumni magazine.
“The thing I remember is how professionally he treated us,” said Theryn Gibbons, who was a member of Meredith’s first recruiting class in 1996 and now ranks third on Yale’s scoring list. “Refs were calling me Babe, and Rudy was never like that — we were athletes. He was very respectful, very sensitive.”
If anything, Ms. Gibbons said, Mr. Meredith sometimes seemed intimidated by the aura of Yale, and tried hard to be liked.
“He’s not sophisticated by any means, and I know he would defer to people who he thought were smarter,” said Ms. Gibbons, who later became a federal prosecutor. “He’s very trusting, and gullible for sure.”
She added, “I’m not condoning what is alleged, but he’s family, and you stand by family.”
Mr. Meredith’s wife, Eva Bergsten Meredith, was also a familiar presence at Yale soccer events. A former national team player for Sweden, she is the longtime women’s soccer coach at Wesleyan, and has also run, with her husband,Bulldog Cardinal soccer campfor many years.
In 2013, in what former players said was an unusual move, the Yale women’s coaching position itself was endowed in Mr. Meredith’s name, thanks to an anonymous donation: For a time, Rudy Meredith was the Rudolph L. Meredith Head Coach of Women’s Soccer. Even after Mr. Meredith’s resignation in November, the name stuck: When Brendan Flaherty was hired as Mr. Meredith’s replacement the next month, it was as the Loring Family and Rudolph L. Meredith Head Coach of Women’s Soccer.
Now, Mr. Flaherty is listed on Yale’s website as simply the Loring Family coach. It was not immediately clear when or why Yale made the change. A university spokesman said Mr. Meredith was not involved in funding and naming the position.
In recent years, Yale’s teams did not perform as well as they had in the 2000s, and players and friends began to suspect that Mr. Meredith wasno longer as gung-ho about soccer.
Adele Jackson-Gibson, a Yale goalkeeper who graduated in 2013 and is now a freelance writer in Brooklyn, said she “could feel people become more defeated over time.” She added, “People seem tired and a little bit checked out.”
Some players, speaking on condition of anonymity so as not to be ensnared in the investigation, also began to notice a player or two, every couple of years, who did not belong on a Division I team, based on their skill level. Some of those players came from wealthy families, prompting speculation that their parents had donated money in exchange for coveted recruiting spots.
In August 2017, the Merediths purchased a vacation home in Fernandina Beach, Fla., for $125,000, and took out a construction loan for $359,250, records show. The next month, Mr. Meredith was badly shaken, friends say, bythe unexpected deathof Fritz Rodriguez, a longtime assistant coach who had been Mr. Meredith’s roommate and teammate in college. So his resignation in November 2018 did not come as a complete surprise to some.
What few knew, of course, was that he had been cooperating with federal authorities for roughly half a year.
A Yale spokesman said the university learned about the scheme and the federal investigation only after the announcement that he was leaving.
Mr. Duffy, the M.C. at the Hall of Fame ceremony, summed up the feelings of many people close to Mr. Meredith when he said that he was still processing the gravity of the scandal.
“In the soccer community, we’re saddened by Rudy’s personal involvement, whatever that may be,” he said. “I think more people are angry that more deserving players were overlooked.”
Katie Benner contributed reporting, and Susan C. Beachy contributed research.



Supported by
ByVictor Mather
For the most part, Sunday’s results from Serie C, the third level of Italian soccer, look like those of any other league around the world: Albissola 1, Arezzo 2. Alessandria 0, Arzachena 1. Cuneo 20, Pro Piacenza 0.
Wait, what?
That eye-popping score, and it’s not a typo, is part of a larger tale. Pro Piacenza 1919 is a venerable team from the Emilia-Romagna region of Italy. But the team has run into financial troubles, and most of its players and staff members, sick of not getting paid, walked out weeks ago.
The team was penalized 8 points by the federation, dropping it to the rock bottom of the standings, and forfeited three straight matches.
One more forfeit and the team could be disqualified from the league.
So for Sunday’s visit to Cuneo, it was imperative that some kind of team be produced. Pro Piacenza, known as the Rossoneri, or Redblacks, scrambled. It mustered up some teenagers from the youth team, and a team masseur, for a total of eight players. The masseur’s number was hastily added to his uniform with tape. One of the youngsters, Nicola Cirigliano, was appointed the player-manager.
Unfortunately one of the players, identified by the Italian press as Isufi, had forgotten his ID card and could not suit up, leaving the team with just seven players, the minimum allowed before an automatic forfeit.
The game progressed as you would expect with seven inexperienced players going against 11. Cuneo passed at will, dribbled at will, and more or less scored at will. A highlight video is great viewing if you enjoy discouraged players trudging back to the center circle after yet another goal. Cuneo went into the break up by 16-0.
Good news for Pro Piacenza: Isufi’s father retrieved his identifying documents, allowing him to join the game. Bad news for Pro Piacenza: the masseur had to leave the game with a cramp.
In the end, Cuneo let up a bit, leading to the 20-0 final score.
Hicham Kanis wound up with six goals, Edoardo Defendi had five, and hat tricks by Francesco De Stefano and Michele Emmausso were almost unnoticed.
To be clear, although Serie C is a far cry from Juventus, the Milan giants and the high-quality play of Serie A, it is still a fully organized soccer league.
Pisa, in the same division as Pro Piacenza, draws an average of 5,000 fans a game. The winner of the division will head up to Serie B, only a level below the likes of Ronaldo, Paulo Dybala and Ciro Immobile.
But several teams at this level have struggled financially, among them Cuneo, the winning team Sunday. Matera has missed four matches and been disqualified.
The Italian press did not like what it saw.
La Gazzetta dello Sport called the matchgrotesque, “one of the saddest and surreal pages of Italian professional football.”
Even a player on the winning side was embarrassed. “I feel only shame for those who made all this possible,”Fabiano Santacroce said.
Francesco Ghirelli, the Serie C president,told Radio Raithat a game like that “must never happen again.”
And on Monday he made sure it wouldn’t: Lega Pro, the governing body for Serie C, announced on Monday that Pro Piacenza had been kicked out of the league.



Supported by
On Soccer
ByRory Smith
The trick, with Aurelio De Laurentiis, is to sit and to wait. He tends to take the scenic route through a conversation; his answers come wrapped in anecdotes and parables, laced with riddles and rhetorical questions.
There are times when you wonder if he has taken one detour too many, become so distracted by his own tangents that he has lost his thread. Listening back, it is hard to pinpoint how, exactly, a question about the Champions League’s revenue distribution leads to a brief but powerful homily about the dangers of the ‘Ndrangheta, the Calabrian mafia, but it does.
It is, though, no great ordeal. De Laurentiis might be most famous now as owner of S.S.C. Napoli, the Italian soccer team he rescued from oblivion and painstakingly restored to Europe’s head table, but he is still, at heart, a film producer, a showman. He knows how to weave together a story, how to craft a compelling pitch. And when he gets to his destination, as he always does, it is invariably worth it.
De Laurentiis is, after all, never knowingly short of ideas on how to revolutionize soccer, never without a sacred cow to slaughter, never without a tradition to overhaul. He has, at various times in the recent past, suggested cutting games from 90 minutes to 60 and advocated the effective abolition of UEFA, European soccer’s governing body, instead handing power directly to Europe’s biggest clubs.
He is also never lacking an adversary, some villain standing in the way of progress, holding the game back through lack of imagination. His list has previously included not only UEFA but FIFA, Adidas, Nike, collective television deals and the Italian political establishment, among others. Many others.
He does all this with a relish and a frequency befitting the scion of one of Italy’s great cinematic dynasties. In his eyes, soccer (and life, most likely) is entertainment. Creating a stir comes naturally. It is all part of the show.
Sitting in a hotel in Liverpool, England, in December, on the eve of what would turn out to be Napoli’s final Champions League game this season, he did not require a vast amount of assistance, then, to land upon his current bête noire.
He would like, he said, to change the way prize money is handed out by the major leagues. He thinks underperformance should not be rewarded. Rather, he thinks it should be punished. “You finish first, you get €100 million, for example,” he says. “You finish second, you earn €50 million, and so on. But if you finish last, you pay a fine.”
This has been a recurrent theme for De Laurentiis this season. He has singled out Frosinone — a minor team from a town between Rome and Naples, promoted to Italy’s top league, Serie A, for only the second time in its history last year — as an example of a club that arrives in the top flight “already relegated.”
Clubs like Frosinone do not draw fans, or interest, or broadcasters to the league, De Laurentiis says. They come up, they do not try to compete, and they go back down, except with their coffers stuffed by what he sees as an unwarranted share of the division’s television revenue.
“The problem is the small teams have the same rights as the big ones,” he said, adding, with a reference to a type of bread: “Why should Frosinone have a season in Serie A, be given a slice of the pagnotta and then be relegated back to the third division? If they cannot compete, if they finish last, they should have to pay a fine. They shouldn’t be given money for failing.”
After yet another tangent in which he dismisses an overmatched club in a major league as a mere “sparring partner,” he quickly builds up a head of steam. “Promotion and relegation is the biggest idiocy in soccer,” De Laurentiis says. “Especially when you also have UEFA trying to force clubs to comply with financial fair play rules. Clubs should be structured geographically, so they can all be self-sufficient. If they cannot survive financially, if they cannot be self-sufficient, they should be booted out.”
It would be easy to listen to De Laurentiis’s words, to hear the many and varied ways in which he feels soccer has gotten things wrong, and to assume that he holds it in contempt, that he has wearied of the sport in the 15 years or so since he bought up what remained of Napoli — “just the name,” he has said previously — and set about reinvigorating it.
His actions, though, are rather different. De Laurentiis is not distancing himself from soccer; rather, he is embedding himself more deeply in it. He has, for several years, been seeking to add another club to his portfolio; ideally, he would have liked one in London. “We never found the occasion,” he said.
He switched his attentions to the United States, investigating an offer to buy an expansion franchise in Major League Soccer. He spent months examining proposals in Baltimore, Detroit and Las Vegas, he said, but was put off by the cost of a team — more than $150 million, plus the cost of a new stadium, in the last expansion round.
Then, in August, De Laurentiis received a phone call from the mayor of Bari, a port city in Apulia, down near Italy’s boot heel. The local club, which played in Serie A as recently as 2011, had been declared bankrupt and had been relegated to the fourth tier of Italian soccer. The mayor offered De Laurentiis the chance to buy it.
“I was surprised,” he said. “I don’t know anyone in Bari. I have barely ever been there.”
More surprising still, however, is that De Laurentiis eventually said yes. Napoli and Bari are, strictly speaking, rivals, but suddenly the same family owned them: the older De Laurentiis in charge of the former, and his son, Luigi, given control of the latter.
It was not, needless to say, a universally popular move. Though Bari’s fans were broadly welcoming — “They saw we were serious people,” Aurelio De Laurentiis said — there was dissent in Naples. “Get out of our city,” read one banner, slung from railings in the city the night the Bari purchase was announced.
De Laurentiis insists that owning another team will not draw his focus from his first love. “Napoli is Napoli, Bari is Bari,” he said. His son, meanwhile, is adamant that the expertise he and his father have gleaned on the Tyrrhenian coast now can be applied on the Adriatic.
“We started from zero,” Luigi said of Bari. “We had to create the brand, starting with a new crest, and then do all of the things necessary for a team: a season-ticket campaign, a website, the marketing, the social media, the jerseys, finding sponsors.”
The rationale, the younger De Laurentiis said, is obvious. “Bari has a national appeal; we are the only team in our division being broadcast nationally,” he said, the result of a partnership with the streaming service DAZN. Apulia itself has seen a boom in tourism in recent years; the opportunity, the younger De Laurentiis said, was too good to ignore.
The plan, needless to say, is to restore Bari to the top flight, even if that would create a battle with the game’s authorities over whether two teams in the same competition can have the same ownership.
“Bari is a recognizable brand,” Luigi said. “It is not Frosinone. It has played in Serie A. It has a long list of famous former players.”
It is not the sort of team, in other words, that Aurelio De Laurentiis would denounce as a sparring partner, a club whose only purpose is to pad out the standings and to pick up a paycheck. De Laurentiis might compulsively court controversy. He might prod and poke and provoke his rivals, and soccer’s authorities. He might do it all in the name of entertainment. He is, though, as good as his word. Bari is putting his money where his mouth is. He thinks soccer needs to change. So he is trying to change it.
Follow Rory Smith on Twitter:@RorySmith.



Supported by
ByReuters
(Reuters) - Jose Maria Marin, the former president of Brazil Football Confederation (CBF), has been banned for life and fined 1 million Swiss francs ($997,000) for taking bribes, the sport's governing body FIFA said on Monday.
Marin is currently serving a four-year sentence in prison a the United States after being convicted on corruption charges related to a bribery scandal at FIFA. He was also fined $1.2 million and ordered to forfeit $3.34 million.
FIFA's investigation into Marin was linked with the awarding of contracts for the media and marketing rights to The South American Football Confederation (CONMEBOL), CBF and CONCACAF competitions in 2012-2015.
"In its decision, the adjudicatory chamber found that Mr Marin had breached art. 27 (Bribery) of the FIFA Code of Ethics and, as a result, banned him for life from all football-related activities (administrative, sports or any other) at both national and international level," FIFA said in a statement.
Marin was among the first to stand trial over what U.S. prosecutors called a sprawling scheme involving payments of more than $200 million of bribes and kickbacks in exchange for marketing and broadcast rights for soccer matches.
(Reporting by Hardik Vyas in Bengaluru; Editing by Hugh Lawson)
Supported by
ByDavid W. ChenandMarc Tracy
As Rudy Meredith was inducted into the Connecticut Soccer Hall of Fame in January to honor his 24-year run as Yale women’s soccer coach, he sprinkled his hallmark humor and humility throughout his remarks.
He recounted how his wife was on the opposite sideline for the University of Hartfordwhen they metin the early 2000s. And he saluted several people in the audience while repeatedly expressing “thankfulness,” recalled Bill Duffy, a middle school principal and soccer lifer who served as master of ceremonies.
There was nothing in Mr. Meredith’s words, Mr. Duffy said, “that would refer to anything that was going on.”
Despite Mr. Meredith’s placid demeanor, people who knew him best had recently begun to detect changes in his behavior. He seemed to be more anxious. He appeared less enthusiastic about soccer, even before he resigned as Yale’s coach in November. He paid little attention to recruiting. He played poorly in pickleball, a paddle sport he usually excelled at.
In hindsight, those hints of stress and fatigue coincided with revelations that Mr. Meredith, 51, had been the linchpin of a sprawling federal investigation into corrupt college admissions schemes thatexploded into public view this week.
At the heart of the scandal was a consultant, William Singer, who took $25 million to help fix exam scores or fraudulently misclassify prospective students as recruited athletes to boost their chances of being admitted to elite colleges. But the person who led federal authorities to Mr. Singer, according to court papers filed on Tuesday, was Mr. Meredith.
In a Boston hotel on April 12, 2018, Mr. Meredith solicited a $450,000 bribe from the parent of a prospective college student in exchange for saving a Yale soccer recruitment spot for his daughter. Mr. Meredith took $2,000 from the parent, and directed the parent to wire future payments to a bank account in Connecticut. But the F.B.I. was secretly recording the conversation, the charging documents said. Then six days later, the parent, who was working with the authorities, wired $4,000 to Mr. Meredith from a bank account in Boston that the F.B.I. controlled, giving the government evidence of wire fraud.
With the authorities on to Mr. Meredith, he told them about a deal he had struck in November 2017, when Mr. Singer had introduced him to a man who wanted his daughter to attend Yale. Mr. Singer helped doctor the application to make it seem as though she was the co-captain of a prominent club soccer team in Southern California, even though she did not play at that level, according to the government documents. But Mr. Meredith told the admissions office he wanted to recruit her, and after she was admitted, Mr. Singer paid the coach $400,000.
Late Friday, Yale released a statement in which it said one student involved in the scheme was admitted and is attending now, while the other was denied admission. In the statement, Peter Salovey, the university president, called the criminal actions “an affront to our community’s deeply held values of fairness, inclusion and honesty.” Mr. Salovey said the university was starting an internal investigation into its admissions process.
Prosecutors said on Tuesday that Mr. Meredith had agreed to plead guilty to wire fraud, honest services wire fraud and conspiracy to commit honest services wire fraud.
Mr. Meredith did not respond to a request for comment. Paul Thomas, Mr. Meredith’s lawyer, who works ata New Haven firm founded by Felice Duffy, a former Yale soccer coachwho later became a federal prosecutor and lawyer, declined to comment.
It was a dramatic fall for a man considered to be a Yale institution. Mr. Meredith started as an assistant coach in 1992, rose to head coach in 1995 and led the team to its first unshared Ivy League title in 2005.
The charges blindsided virtually everyone who knew Mr. Meredith, according to interviews with more than a dozen former players and others connected to Yale or soccer. Mr. Meredith was generous and well liked, and did not appear to have any health, financial or personal problems.
“I’m both appalled and sympathetic — I would never have thought that he was capable of doing this,” said Sharon Eisen, a veterinarian who became friendly with the Merediths in recent years through pickleball, in which Mr.Meredithis anational-level player and coach. “On the one hand, I know them and like them personally. But on the other hand, I’ve lost all respect. So greedy. So immoral.”
Mr. Meredith grew up modestly in the Rockville, Md., area, and was an all-state soccer player at Richard Montgomery High School. But he failed classes while at Montgomery College, and almost quit school. After undergoing tests at the urging of his coach andbeing found to have a learning disability, he turned his life around, and ultimately transferred to Southern Connecticut State. The university’s men’s soccer program was then a Division II powerhouse. Mr. Meredith played on the 1990 N.C.A.A. championship team, then embarked on a career coaching soccer and teaching physical education.
Robert Kehoe, director of college programs for the National Soccer Coaches Association of America, said he first met Mr. Meredith in 1996 and worked closely with the Yale women’s team for the next several years as part of a development workshop he used to conduct.
“He had a lot of credibility because he was a very good player in his own right,” Mr. Kehoe said.
Mr. Meredith quickly fostered an energetic atmosphere. He required players to wear costumes for Halloween practice. He bought bagels and extra food on his own dime for long bus rides to away games, while good-naturedly enduring the film “Dirty Dancing” at his players’ behest.
Yale enjoyed success in the mid-2000s, with the 2005 team reaching the third round of the N.C.A.A. tournament, knocking out third-seeded Duke in the process. Mr. Meredith coached several Ivy League players of the year and anall-Americansecond-teamer who was profiled by ESPN. Meredith Speck, class of 2015, was the first Yale player in the National Women’s Soccer League, according toYale's alumni magazine.
“The thing I remember is how professionally he treated us,” said Theryn Gibbons, who was a member of Meredith’s first recruiting class in 1996 and now ranks third on Yale’s scoring list. “Refs were calling me Babe, and Rudy was never like that — we were athletes. He was very respectful, very sensitive.”
If anything, Ms. Gibbons said, Mr. Meredith sometimes seemed intimidated by the aura of Yale, and tried hard to be liked.
“He’s not sophisticated by any means, and I know he would defer to people who he thought were smarter,” said Ms. Gibbons, who later became a federal prosecutor. “He’s very trusting, and gullible for sure.”
She added, “I’m not condoning what is alleged, but he’s family, and you stand by family.”
Mr. Meredith’s wife, Eva Bergsten Meredith, was also a familiar presence at Yale soccer events. A former national team player for Sweden, she is the longtime women’s soccer coach at Wesleyan, and has also run, with her husband,Bulldog Cardinal soccer campfor many years.
In 2013, in what former players said was an unusual move, the Yale women’s coaching position itself was endowed in Mr. Meredith’s name, thanks to an anonymous donation: For a time, Rudy Meredith was the Rudolph L. Meredith Head Coach of Women’s Soccer. Even after Mr. Meredith’s resignation in November, the name stuck: When Brendan Flaherty was hired as Mr. Meredith’s replacement the next month, it was as the Loring Family and Rudolph L. Meredith Head Coach of Women’s Soccer.
Now, Mr. Flaherty is listed on Yale’s website as simply the Loring Family coach. It was not immediately clear when or why Yale made the change. A university spokesman said Mr. Meredith was not involved in funding and naming the position.
In recent years, Yale’s teams did not perform as well as they had in the 2000s, and players and friends began to suspect that Mr. Meredith wasno longer as gung-ho about soccer.
Adele Jackson-Gibson, a Yale goalkeeper who graduated in 2013 and is now a freelance writer in Brooklyn, said she “could feel people become more defeated over time.” She added, “People seem tired and a little bit checked out.”
Some players, speaking on condition of anonymity so as not to be ensnared in the investigation, also began to notice a player or two, every couple of years, who did not belong on a Division I team, based on their skill level. Some of those players came from wealthy families, prompting speculation that their parents had donated money in exchange for coveted recruiting spots.
In August 2017, the Merediths purchased a vacation home in Fernandina Beach, Fla., for $125,000, and took out a construction loan for $359,250, records show. The next month, Mr. Meredith was badly shaken, friends say, bythe unexpected deathof Fritz Rodriguez, a longtime assistant coach who had been Mr. Meredith’s roommate and teammate in college. So his resignation in November 2018 did not come as a complete surprise to some.
What few knew, of course, was that he had been cooperating with federal authorities for roughly half a year.
A Yale spokesman said the university learned about the scheme and the federal investigation only after the announcement that he was leaving.
Mr. Duffy, the M.C. at the Hall of Fame ceremony, summed up the feelings of many people close to Mr. Meredith when he said that he was still processing the gravity of the scandal.
“In the soccer community, we’re saddened by Rudy’s personal involvement, whatever that may be,” he said. “I think more people are angry that more deserving players were overlooked.”
Katie Benner contributed reporting, and Susan C. Beachy contributed research.



Supported by
ByTariq Panja
Over the past four years, some of the most damning secrets of the professional soccer industry have been exposed by a deluge of leaks that have shined an unflattering light on some of the sport’s most popular clubs, players and coaches.
Last week the man behind the leaks, a 30-year-old Portuguese citizen named Rui Pinto, was arrested in Budapest, Hungary. He faces extradition to his home country on the charges, which include an extortion attempt in 2015 on a secretive investment fundthat had bet millions of dollarsin the player transfer market.
For the moment, though, Pinto’s fate depends on a far narrower matter: whether his team of lawyers can successfully argue that he is a whistle-blower under Hungarian law — a defendant whose actions to expose malpractice and, potentially, a raft of financial and other crimes in soccer outweigh any offenses he might have committed.
In the view of the Portuguese authorities, Pinto is guilty of extortion and violation of secrecy in relation to his contact with the investment fund, Doyen Sports. They and Doyen have accused him of threatening to publish internal company documents — revealing transfer fees and secret payments — unless the fund paid him to keep the documents private.
Those documents, which offered a window into both Doyen’s business model and its bank accounts, were later published on the website known as Football Leaks. The revelations, along with a number of player contracts posted on the site, exposed a murky world of soccer finance that was at best unsavory and at worst in violation of national and international soccer regulations.
Ultimately, Pinto turned over about 70 million documents and 3.4 terabytes of information to a German newsmagazine, Der Spiegel, which shared documents with a select group of news media outlets who published reports on their contents.
Now that Pinto has been arrested on a Portuguese warrant, his case represents a high-profile test of a Hungarian law passed in 2014 that affords special protection to whistle-blowers. His lawyers plan to argue that the leads his leaked documents provided to a variety of European law enforcement organizations outweigh Pinto’s actions.
“Based on the leaks, there have been some extremely important criminal investigations opened with prosecutions in various countries,” said William Bourdon, Pinto’s lawyer, who previously has represented the national-security whistle-blower Edward Snowden. “Without Pinto, this wouldn’t have been possible.”
Those investigations include several tax cases in Spain, where top soccer stars, including Cristiano Ronaldo, have beenprosecuted for tax evasionafter Football Leaks revealed details of the complicated structures through which they received millions of dollars in salaries and image rights. (Pinto’s lawyers said that he also has been in contact with French financial crimes prosecutors since late 2016.)
More recently, Football Leaks disclosures have targeted the FIFA president, Gianni Infantino, and the ways some top clubs might have circumvented the sport’s financial regulations. The revelations also led to the reopening ofa sexual assault case against Ronaldo.
Unlike in most whistle-blower cases, however, Pinto has no official connection with the soccer industry — no access to clubs’ books or a players’ contracts — beyond being a fan of the game.
“For me, it doesn’t make a difference considering what is the basis of whistle-blower protection: the intensity of the contribution to the public interest,” Bourdon said. “This is the key point.”
Bourdon said Pinto already had agreed to assist the authorities in Switzerland, and that Germany’s tax agency was seeking access to his information, too. But it is the decision of a Hungarian judge that matters most to him at the moment, since that will determine whether or not he avoids extradition to Portugal.
“We expect the Hungarian judge to be sensitive to the paradoxical situation,” Bourdon said, “that on one hand he’s being prosecuted in Portugal, while on the other he has been providing assistance to prosecutors in other countries.”
Bourdon said that he sees little difference between Pinto and one of his former clients,Hervé Falciani, who leaked account details of clients of the British bank HSBC while he worked in Geneva. Falciani’s disclosures, which shook the secretive world of Swiss banking, revealed accounts containing more than $100 billion, and led to the bank’s agreeing to pay 300 million euros (about $340 million) to French authorities to settle a tax-evasion investigation.
Spain’s high court last September rejected an extradition request for Falciani — once labeled the Edward Snowden of banking — from Switzerland.
In addition to Pinto’s extradition, the Portuguese police have demanded the entirety of the computer equipment seized from him in Hungary. Bourdon called that an overreach because their case is limited to the suspected 2015 extortion attempt.
Bourdon acknowledged that Pinto had attempted to make contact with Doyen once he had the company’s documents, but he said the extortion charges were not valid because Pinto ultimately “didn’t follow through” with an operation to secure a payment.
Bourdon described the charges as “a tool to criminalize him, to target him as an offender and not a whistle-blower.”
Little is known about Pinto. A Der Spiegel reporter, Rafael Buschman, is the only journalist known to have contact with an individual connected with Football Leaks. Buschman has written a series of breathless accounts and a book detailing his relationship with a man he referred to as “John.” Der Spiegel has not confirmed Pinto is its source.
But a September report by the Portuguese magazine Sabado reported Pinto was the “computer genius” behind Football Leaks. Shortly after its article was published, a message was posted on Football Leaks’ Facebook page that appeared to taunt Portuguese authorities, signing off with “#catchmeifyoucan.”
In a video posted to websites including YouTube after a court appearancein Budapest last week, Pinto, dressed in a brown leather jacket and jeans, appeared relaxed as he sat on a wooden bench outside the courtroom with his hands cuffed in front of him. Pinto’s lawyers managed to secure house arrest for him until the judge delivers a verdict.
“Jurisprudence and regulations say there is a question of proportionality between the seriousness of the offense and the importance to public interest,” Bourdon said. “You could violate the law, could be hacking, or stealing, and if the contribution is tremendous then it’s not a crime.
“It will be a historic decision for a Hungarian judge to make.”


Young players with dreams of glory think elite training programs lead to riches. They do. Just rarely for them.
A training session at a semi-professional program in Rio de Janeiro in February.CreditCreditDado Galdieri for The New York Times
Supported by
ByTariq PanjaandManuela Andreoni
RIO DE JANEIRO — Even in death the haggling went on.
Christian Esmério was going to be the one — his family had been sure of it.
He was 15 and towering, a soccer player with an easy smile that belied his prowess between the goal posts. Already there was talk of contracts, and of buying a home for his parents, who had poured all their savings into the dream that their son might be the next great Brazilian soccer export — the next Ronaldo, Ronaldinho or Neymar.
Now, his father stood in a daze of grief outside a Rio office building, surrounded by lawyers. Just days earlier, Christian had burned to death ina fireat the youth academy of one of South America’s most famous soccer clubs, Flamengo. He was one of 10 players killed.
The deaths lifted the veil over international soccer’s biggest production line, and raised sweeping questions about a brutal apparatus that chews up untold numbers of young Brazilian boys for every star it mints.
But for the moment, as lawyers sparred over how much money families of the players killed in the blaze should get, there was just one simple question: What was Christian worth?
“Dreams.”
The word hung in the air as Rafael Stival let out a sigh.
Mr. Stival’s for-profit talent scouting operation had posted a note on Facebook mourning three of its graduates who had died in the fire at Flamengo. Since then, the messages had been pouring in.
They were not condolences. The Facebook post had inadvertently acted as an advertisement — a signal to ambitious parents that Mr. Stival’s organization could get their boys into not just any club, but the great Flamengo. They wanted Mr. Stival to give their boys a chance.
The soccer world in Brazil is populated by a variety of actors, some drawn by glory, but almost all attracted by the chance of breaking out of poverty, maybe even striking it rich.
There are the boys, of course, and their families. There are the investors and the middlemen like Mr. Stival, who trawl the continent-size country in search of prospects as young as 9. And there are the teams, many in a state of such financial disarray that only the sale of the latest star keeps them afloat.
The profits from investing wisely, and early, in even a single player can run into the tens of millions of dollars.
To many in the game, the industry has grown out of control. It has morphed from a system intended to develop promising players into an international market whose value is $7 billion a year, according to soccer’s global governing body, FIFA. In this speculative environment, talented young athletes — some of them children — are bought and sold like any other raw material. In Brazil, the best ones are even referred to that way: as “gems.”
No one knows for sure how many boys are in Brazil’s youth soccer system.
There are no official figures. Estimates range from 12,000 to 15,000, but that is hard to corroborate. The Brazilian soccer federation makes no effort to track players until they turn 16 and become professionals.
But one thing is known: On the night of the Flamengo fire, Feb. 8, more than two dozen boys — most from poor families, and all hoping to achieve a dream — were asleep in a club dormitory.
In a country obsessed with soccer, Flamengo prides itself on being the most popular team, with wealth that is the envy of rivals across South America. But that adoration and power, it appears, may have allowed Flamengo to escape for years any real censure for the treatment of boys in its care.
In 2015, Rio state prosecutors sued Flamengo over the conditions at its training center. The prosecutors cited child-protection failures, declaring the conditions to be “even worse than those currently offered to juvenile delinquents.”
City officials issued an order closing the facility in 2017, but never carried it out, limiting their sanctions to dozens of fines.
In recent years, Flamengo spent millions to upgrade its youth academy. Last year, club officials boasted that the new facilities would be the best in Brazil.
But the dormitory holding 26 sleeping boys on the night of the fire was a makeshift structure, consisting of six steel containers fused together. It had never been inspected, according to local authorities.
Interviews with survivors of the fire and officials who investigated it suggest that a series of failures may have contributed to the boys’ deaths:
— Federal regulations require at least one caretaker for every 10 boys, but there was no adult present at the time of the fire.
— Survivors said the only exit from the dorm was at its far end. Some of the boys may have been in beds farther away from the exit than the 33-feet limit required by the regulations.
— The rooms had sliding doors, another violation because they can jam.
— And while each room had a window, the openings were covered with grates.
One boy who was in Christian’s room told investigators their door had stuck when he tried to get out. The boy managed to slide through the window grates. But Christian, a strapping 6-foot-3 goalkeeper, could not. When rescuers got to him, his body was so badly charred he could be identified only through dental records.
Flamengo officials did not respond to interview requests. But in February, its president, Rodolfo Landim, denied knowing about any irregularities when he spoke at a news conference after the fire.
“Our goal is to solve this problem as quickly as possible,” he said.
Soccer is hardly the only industry to attract Brazil’s desperate.
Sergio Rangel, a journalist who has covered the sport for three decades, says the youth-training system reminds him of the giant gold mine inSerra Pelada. The horrific conditions there were immortalized by the photographer Sebastião Salgado in the 1980s.
Desperately poor men from all over the country swarmed the mine’s open pit, turning over rocks in the hope of finding the nugget that would change their lives.
Soccer has also been a fool’s gold of sorts for many families. Some of them move hundreds, even thousands of miles to enroll their sons in training programs that will sort, scrutinize and, more often than not, reject their child as worthless.
“Pick one up, turn it over, and throw it away if it’s no good,” Mr. Rangel said.
The young men are not just disposable. To those who run the industry, they are often indistinguishable.
That much was clear at a memorial for the 10 players who died at Flamengo. Midway through the service, a team official rushed to cover a large montage of photos of the boys: someone had realized that a player who survived had been mistakenly included.
The streets of Xerém, about 50 kilometers outside Rio, teem with boys of various ages in red, green and white jerseys — the colors of the Fluminense soccer club.
Until the team built its training complex there, Xerém was little more than a swamp, locals say. But now, despite the humid heat that tops 100 degrees Fahrenheit, it is home to players and families whose lives revolve around the club.
Among them earlier this year was an 11-year-old nicknamed Maradoninha, for his resemblance to the former Argentine great Diego Maradona. Even in this hotly competitive town, Maradoninha was attracting attention.
Two years ago, a talent scout from Fluminense saw the boy, whose real name is Leandro Gomes Feitosa, play in a local tournament and approached his family. The boy was only 9, and Brazilian law does not allow soccer clubs to house children under 14. But if the family could get to Rio, the scout said, Fluminense would train him.
A group of local businessmen put up the money — for a cut of future proceeds — and the family moved more than 1,200 miles, from the town of Palmas to Xerém, to pursue the dream.
Almost all the families living in their community of 26 rowhouses have a similar story, Maradoninha’s father, Evandro Feitosa, said.
Maradoninha may not be old enough for high school, but he knows his family’s future is tied to his skills with a soccer ball. “God willing,” he said, “I’ll become a big player to help my family in Palmas, my family here and those in need.”
The chances of making it are slim. Fewer than 5 percent of the soccer prospects in Brazilwill ever make it as professionals, by most estimates. Fewer still will earn a decent wage in the game. A study published by the Brazilian soccer federation in 2016 found that 82 percent of soccer players in the country earned less than 1,000 reais ($265) each month.
And for Maradoninha and his family, the odds recently got even slimmer: Fluminense released him.
Whatever the odds, whatever the hardship, there are enough soccer success stories to feed the hopes of young boys and families who have little else to aspire to.
There is Neymar, so successful he is more international brand than player. He is the product of a humble neighborhood on the outskirts of São Paulo. There are Rivaldo, Ronaldo and Romário, three former Brazilian World Cup winners, all awarded the title of best player in the world in their time by FIFA.
And most recently, there is Vinicius Junior, a flashy forward who rose out of Flamengo’s youth ranks. He once trained on the same fields as the 10 boys killed in the fire, and then he began living the dream: in 2017, when he was 16, Spain’s Real Madrid agreed to pay 45 million euros (just over $50 million) for his rights after he played just 11 minutes in his debut game.
All of those players, and hundreds more, have emerged from the Brazil’s soccer mill to ply their trade on the world’s biggest stages.
In his early days in the sport, Christian’s parents used all they had — and borrowed from friends and neighbors — to finance his soccer dream.
He seemed to be getting closer to his own version of the soccer success story. On March 5, the day he turned 16, he was expected to sign his first professional contract at Flamengo. His dream, years in the making, was in reach.
He died four weeks before that birthday.
Days after his death, his father, Cristiano Esmério, was standing outside an office tower in downtown Rio where public defenders were meeting with officials from Flamengo. He was with a group of lawyers. One turned to him.
When it came to compensation, the lawyer said, it would be unfair if Christian's family was treated the same as the others. After all, he said, some of the dead boys had been recent arrivals to the club. But Christian was different: He had been called up to one of Brazil’s youth national teams. Clearly he was worth more than the rest.
Esmério nodded silently. He and his son had discussed money, too.
“Dad, let’s look for a house,” he recalls Christian saying when he got word that he was closing in on a professional contract. “My first paycheck, I want to pay for a house for my mom, so she doesn’t have to suffer because she doesn’t have water or electricity.”
A week before he died, the boy posted a tribute to his family on Facebook. Above two pictures of father and son taken a decade apart, he made a promise:
“All the sacrifice will be compensated, my old man.”
Supported by
For decades, women’s uniforms were just derivations of men’s. Now, taking specific design cues, like ponytail-friendly necklines, comes the good stuff.
ByVanessa Friedman
The United States women’s soccer team has been fighting for gender parity not just in the courts —suing the United States Soccer Federationlast week for discrimination — but also in their uniforms, known as kits. And at least when it comes to the clothes and the Women’s World Cup, they have won.
On Monday, at a global event in Paris, Nike revealed the new home and away uniforms for 14 out of 24 competing teams, and for the first time since the brand began working with the WWC tournament in 1995, each one of them was made specifically for the women’s teams, not as derivations or extensions of kits made for men. Three days before, to coincide with International Women’s Day, Adidas released its new designs for four WWC teams.
In the larger picture of gender issues and sports, this may not seem like a big deal. But the clothes athletes wear speak loudly about identity and allegiance, and have the power to help instill confidence. Clothes are also the easiest way for fans to assert their own allegiance, aspiration and personal connection. They are, above all, symbols. And now they are finally symbols of parity.
“We are shifting more resources to women,” said Amy Montagne, the vice president for global categories at Nike — and not just because this is the largest number of teams the company has worked with. (It outfitted 11 clubs for the 2015 Women’s World Cup.) But because, Mark Parker, the chief executive, said, “We believe this summer can be another turning point for the growth of women’s football.”
Certainly, given Nike’s current emphasis on women’s sports — theDream Crazier campaign, a series of new initiatives designed to support women’s coaching and engage more girls — as well as its own experience withSerena Williamsand the current focus on female dress in the competitive arena, it would have been fairly hypocritical for the company to treat its women’s soccer kit as in any way secondary to men’s. (Especially given Nike’s own somewhatuncomfortable internal historywith gender issues.)
Yet itwasn’t until 2015that Nike began making women’s soccer jerseys in men’s sizes so that more male fans could buy them. And it wasn’t until the players really spoke up that things began to change.
“Three years ago they said, ‘We want our own thing,’” Cassie Looker, the senior apparel product manager for global football, said in a call from France. “Their own thing” refers to both fit and to the design of the uniforms, which Nike refers to as the “storytelling.”
According to Ms. Looker, the fit took three years and multiple four-dimensional body mapping sessions of professional athletes to adjust. “They are shaped differently than the standard body type,” she said. “They generate most of their power from their lower body.”
While male soccer players like a slimmer fit — “It makes them feel more powerful, like superheroes,” Ms. Looker said — women are more interested in comfort and “looking professional.” This meant a lot of focus on the length of the sleeve (the athletes did not want to expose too much of their upper arms) and the neckline, which ended up halfway between a V-neck and a crew neck, with enough give to be easily pulled over a ponytail.
“They want zero distractions,” she said.
Most of this may be lost on the armchair soccer fan, though the storytelling implicit in the design will not. (In any case, the kits are available in two fits: athlete and “stadium,” or looser, for the weekend fan.) Though the kits rely on the color palettes of national flags, the difference is often in the pixelated details.
“Chile, France, U.S.A. — they are all red, white and blue,” Ms. Looker said, which can make them hard to distinguish. “We bring it up all the time internally.”
What to expect? The United States jerseys have a throwback patriotism with (in the home kit) direct references to the jerseys worn by the 1999 team that transformed the profile of women’s soccer in America: white, with red and blue stripes on the sleeves.
The names of the 50 states are printed in gray on the back, and three stars over the crest nod to the three championships the United States has won. The away kit has tonal abstractions of stars and stripes on red (though they read a little blotchy from afar).
Also tonal are the roses and assorted other florals on the four burgundy-red quadrants of the England jerseys, which is why France’s hexagonal blue polka dots on white stand out, as does the Norwegian snowflake pattern that fades from red to blue, giving their home jersey an Empire-waist effect and uniting the shorts and top.
By athlete request Chile, Nigeria, South Africa and Korea have thesame pattern that the men’steams wore in the 2018 World Cup, though the fit has been customized for the women. (At least in Nigeria’s case, the look was so successful that you can kind of understand why they didn’t want to mess with a good thing.)
And then there’s Australia. Of all 14 Nike team looks, this will likely be the most controversial; a canvas of forest green, mustardy gold and white slashes and splotches that looks sort of like animal print meets modern art landscape painting.
Together with the Sweden kit, by Adidas, which features the faces of female role models chosen by the players embedded in the numbers on the back of each jersey, it makes a statement that, on the pitch or the street, will be impossible to miss.
Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.@VVFriedman
Supported by
ByReuters
DINARD, France — Brazil soccer great Pele said on Friday he was feeling "so much better" after receiving treatment in a French hospital for a urinary infection.
"Thank you for all your love! The antibiotics are working and the tests are all (good). I feel so much better, I think I am ready to play again," Pele wrote on Twitter.
The 78-year-old was admitted to hospital late on Tuesday as a precaution after attending an event in the French capital with France's World Cup winning youngster Kylian Mbappe.
(Reporting by Richard Lough; Editing by Andrew Heavens)
Supported by
Roundup
ByTariq Panja
A toxic political dispute is threatening to sink the Persian Gulf’s biggest sports television contract, a development that could have repercussions for other broadcast rights agreements worth billions of dollars.
The Asian Football Confederation, the governing body for soccer in the region, on Tuesday unilaterally broke its exclusive contract with its Middle Eastern broadcast partner, the Qatar-based beIN Media Group, so that it could broadcast matches in Saudi Arabia, a country where beIN has been banned amid a bitter diplomatic and economic crisis between Gulf neighbors that is now in its second year.
The A.F.C’s decision to nullify its contract for the broadcast rights to games in Saudi Arabia comes even after rulers there have allowed a major piracy operation,perhaps the most sophisticated in television history, to steal billions of dollars of sports content owned by beIN since 2017.
BeIN’s rights deals with the A.F.C., which run through 2020, are worth $300 million. The broadcaster immediately announced its intention to file a lawsuit to counter the decision to strip it of the rights to games broadcast in Saudi Arabia, which comes weeks before the A.F.C.’s president, Sheikh Salman Bin Ibrahim al-Khalifa of Bahrain, stands for re-election. His opposition in that vote consists of a candidate from the United Arab Emirates, a Saudi ally, and another from Qatar.
Yousef Al-Obaidly, beIN’s chief executive, said Tuesday’s decision was not a coincidence; he accused the A.F.C. of colluding with Saudi Arabia ahead of April’s election.
“It is remarkable to see the governing body of football across Asia — which should, by definition, be apolitical — putting politics ahead of its long-term commercial interests and established legitimate relationships,” Al-Obaidly told The New York Times in an emailed statement. “We will use the full force of international law to claim every dollar of damages we have and will incur as a result of the A.F.C.’s unilateral breach of our agreement.”
Previously, the A.F.C. had issued strongly worded condemnations of the theft of beIN’s programming and threats of legal action against the Saudi-based piracy operation, dubbed BeoutQ.
The dispute comes at a delicate time, with beIN Media and the A.F.C locked in negotiations over a new regional contract. The A.F.C. had tried to persuade beIN to agree to purchase future rights but without access to Saudi Arabia, the Gulf’s biggest market.
News of a separate deal with the A.F.C. for the Saudi rights was first announced by the Saudi soccer federation, well before the A.F.C.’s released its own brief statement on the matter almost 24 hours later.
Salman, who is also a FIFA vice president, has made no comment. The A.F.C said its decision to stream games in Saudi Arabia on its own channels was an attempt to tackle piracy. But within hours, its content was available on other platforms across Saudi Arabia, including on the free-to-air channel Saudi 24. A promise to geoblock coverage so it could only be viewed inside the Gulf’s most-populous country also failed, with the A.F.C.’s stream of its Champions League games available outside the kingdom.
Rights owners across the spectrum of sports, from FIFA to the governing bodies for tennis and track and field, have lodged complaints over the industrial scale piracy of their broadcast rights by BeoutQ. The latest twist could threaten the billions of dollars in income those organizations are able to extract for their content, according to beIN. The company said broadcasters would be unlikely to pay vast sums for exclusive contracts if those rights could be protected.
“There is now no guaranteed protection of intellectual property in the region to due to the A.F.C. in effect endorsing Saudi Arabia’s theft of world sport and wholesale disregard for the international rule of law,” the network said.
CHAMPIONS LEAGUECristiano Ronaldo scored his first hat trick for Juventus to send the club into the Champions League quarterfinals with a 3-0 win over Atlético Madrid on Tuesday. The Italian side fought back from a two-goal first-leg defeat.
Ronaldo scored from open play in each half and then converted a late penalty as Juventus advanced by 3-2 on aggregate, ending Atlético’s hopes of reaching the final, which will be held in its Wanda Metropolitano Stadium.
It was Ronaldo’s eighth hat trick in the competition, moving him even with Barcelona’s Lionel Messi and demonstrating why Juventus paid Real Madrid 112 million euros (then $131.5 million) for the Portuguese forward, who has dominated the competition in recent years. Ronaldo is seeking a fourth straight Champions League title; Real Madrid was eliminated without him by Ajax last week.
It was the first time Juventus came back from a two-goal defeat in the first leg.
“Maybe that’s why Juventus signed me,” Ronaldo said. “To help it do things that it had never done before. This result is a great push for the future. We’re strong and we showed it.”
Manchester City also advanced to the quarterfinals, routing Schalke by 7-0 to progress on aggregate, 10-2.
Juventus thought it had taken the lead less than three minutes into its game but a video review confirmed that Ronaldo had fouled Atlético goalkeeper Jan Oblak before Giorgio Chiellini fired in the rebound.
But a goal eventually came when Italy forward Federico Bernardeschi put in a cross from the left for Ronaldo to head in at the far post in the 27th minute. Ronaldo got his second goal three minutes into the second half, as Joao Cancelo put in a cross from the right. Although Oblak clawed Ronaldo’s header out from under his crossbar, goal-line technology confirmed the ball had crossed the line.
Juventus went all out attack and got the decisive third goal four minutes from the final whistle, when Bernardeschi was nudged over in the penalty area. Ronaldo converted the resulting penalty kick.
In Manchester, Manchester City tied the record for the biggest win in the Round of 16 of the Champions League by thrashing Schalke.
Sergio Agüero scored twice in the first half for City, and Leroy Sané rolled in another goal before halftime before Raheem Sterling, Bernardo Silva, Phil Foden and Gabriel Jesus added second-half goals.



Supported by
THE STONE
A commonplace modern ritual gave me a deeper connection to today’s Athenians.
BySimon Critchley
Mr. Critchley is a philosophy professor and author.
ATHENS — It is about time I told you what I havereallybeen doing here the past few months. It hasn’t all been visits to archaeological sites and meditations on the contemporary relevance of antiquity. Today I’d like to put ancient history on hold for a moment and move from the past right into the present.
It might be objected that what I have been writing is a series of postcards, perhaps with lots of local color and historical background, but nonetheless a kind of high-end philosophical tourism from famous Athenian locations. Perhaps this can’t be avoided. I am, after all, a foreigner and a temporary resident. And this city’s monuments, with their beauty and historical grandeur, exert a pull like virtually no others. But is there perhaps a better way of connecting with ordinary Athenians, with their habits and routines? Maybe I could get closer to their lives in the vast modern Agora of this metropolis through a common passion. A passion for soccer. And what site could be more ordinary than a pub?
I am a lifelongfan of Liverpool Football Cluband spend much more time than I care to confess watching games, reading about soccer, listening to podcasts and watching endless YouTube clips of highlights, news conferences and often rather tedious match analysis. I will talk to any poor soul I can find about my team and about theirs, although I prefer mine. Yet — much to my constant amazement — there exist people in the world who do not care for the beautiful game.
Liverpool were playing the day after I arrived in Athens in early January. I urgently needed to find out where to watch live games because the TV in my apartment was pretty basic. On the morning of match day, I dipped into the internet and discovered a promising-looking Facebook page for “The Pan-Hellenic Liverpool Friends Club.” I sent a message, more in hope than expectation.
Three minutes later, I got a reply: “Good morning m8. You can meet us in the Wee Dram pub. It is a Scottish pub. Ask for John.”
I got there early and asked for John. It was like meeting a long-lost friend. John Skotidas founded the official Liverpool supporters club in 1995 and has been running it ever since with a good deal of organizational skill. It has 1,100 members, and Liverpool are the most popular English team in Greece. I’ve gotten to know John quite well in the time I have been here. He was an aircraft engineer with the Greek Air Force for 27 years, before retiring at age 46 to pursue his other passion, watching and talking about soccer. John even has his ownYouTube channel. He became a Liverpool fan after seeing the Beatles on TV when he was a kid in the late 1960s. He just liked the name “Liverpool.” It sounded good. When he was 10 years old, he watched them play for the first time against Newcastle United in the FA Cup final in 1974 and decided to support them. He has been a fan ever since.
I also met a number of other people in the bar on that first day: Scotty, Kris, Spiros (who promotes Bollywood movies in Greece, which are apparently pretty popular) and a bunch of other Greek fans. I watched my first game with them on Jan. 12, Liverpool versus Brighton. It was an edgy match, but with a confident defensive display from us, we won 1-0 (“one-nil”).
Since then, I’ve watched an awful lot of games at the Wee Dram, and it has developed into a ritual of sorts. I have a talked a fair bit about the nature of ritual in this series, whether the processional pomp of theCity of Dionysia, the Divine Liturgy ofMount Athosor theGreater Mysteries of Eleusis. Watching soccer is an undoubtedly lesser mystery, with a more humble and humdrum set of ritual actions, but they also have meaning. And every fan has their rituals and superstitions.
Before leaving the apartment, I carefully select my Liverpool shirt, track suit or scarf (depending on the weather, but I always look a teensy bit ridiculous) and walk to Syntagma or Constitution Square. I descend into the underworld of the subway system, take the four stops to Panormou station, buy a piece of spanakopita or sumptuous spinach pie from the bakery, walk slowly uphill eating it, get to the Wee Dram, push open the door, scan the room for seats and look for John. He’s always sitting in the same spot (it’s a superstition, he told me), just next to the big TV, head down, looking at his phone. Although I always try to get there early, the place is usually packed. John seems to have a secret supply of stools that he will whip out if a regular comes in late and the place is too crammed with fans.
John gives the nod, says a few words, and a seat opens up. I shake hands with everyone, ask them how they are doing, head to the bar, buy a pint of Murphy’s (they don’t sell Guinness), sit down and check the WhatsApp connection with my son Edward in London. We exchange a couple of short messages like “I’m in position. You?” and then discuss the team lineup and usually wonder why our German coach Juergen Klopp has included or left out a player we particularly like. The Wi-Fi tends to keep dropping, which occasions much dashing out into the street.
The Wee Dram is owned by Ross, who incidentally used to play for the Scottish national basketball team (I didn’t know they had one) and supports Hearts of Midlothian. To each their own. The pub has two main areas, a glass-walled central room where you can buy drinks, which is where the younger lads tend to gather, standing together in small groups, often wearing Liverpool shirts, and a larger outside area with older fans, sitting or standing. I prefer to sit, at least until something really exciting happens and then I stand and retreat backward to the door of the pub, so I don’t block anyone’s view. For reasons that completely escape me, I often crouch with my arms at a right angle and fists softly clenched. It’s almost an attitude of prayer.
There’s a large wooden central rectangular table with benches where the hard-core fans sit, with John in pole position, top left. Most of them are smoking (Athens is a great place to pick up a passive smoking habit. Smoking is banned, of course, but Greeks tend to do what they want), drinking beer or coffee and betting online on their phones. Just behind the central table is another, smaller table with about four or five seats, marked “reserved” (although it turns out that all the tables are “reserved”). This is where I sit, usually with some familiar faces. We talk to one another as much as we can, in broken English and fragmentary Greek, but in great detail about the qualities of particular players, tactics, formation and the strength of the opposition. Although we don’t really know one another that well, there is an immense of feeling of familiarity, affection and trust.
For the non-fan, it’s hard to explain how detailed these discussions are and the extraordinary levels of knowledge that ordinary fans possess. Although this might sound stupid, there is an amazing rational intelligence to soccer talk, bolstered by a common passion for the team that we all love.
The teams emerge, I sit up straight, and there is the usual fluff of TV commercials and dumb graphics before kickoffs. We all clap when the whistle blows, and then we enter the shared and strangely meditative flow of the game. Things get really quiet. There is always an odd experience of tension in watching a game with a group of fellow fans, waiting for your team to score or at least have a shot or engage in a compelling passage of play. The TV in the Wee Dram has useless speakers, and it is a real strain to catch the Greek commentary. Not really understanding the words, I listen eagerly for the names, which have an almost magical aura: Van Dijk, Robertson, Sadio Mane, Milner, Alexander-Arnold.
Of course, there are a lot of complaints, when there is a misplaced pass or especially when our star forward player, Mohammed Salah, shoots and misses, which has been happening a lot of late. The most frequently heard word in the bar is “malakas.” Let’s just say this is a word with a wide range of semantic connotations, many of them connected with the sin of onanism. There is a visceral connection between soccer and swearing, and I am at my most disgustingly foul-mouthed when watching Liverpool play. I am not proud of this fact and often try to swallow the vowel after the first consonant of the bad word has spilled from my lips.
When we score, the place explodes. Skintight anxiety suddenly releases into ecstasy. Everyone leaps to their feet, with wild scenes of joy, hugging and loud cries. I high-five everyone around the table, often inaccurately. I don’t know why I do it. It’s not my style. But I started the habit at my first match in January and somehow feel obliged to continue because they expect it from me. It’s a little awkward.
When the opposing team score, there is absolute silence in the bar. Not a word. And barely any reaction. The mood shifts entirely and no one speaks for at least 10 seconds, then: “Malakas.”
My three months in Athens has been a very tense time to be a Liverpool fan. A six-point January lead in the English Premier League has been whittled away by the relentlessness of our main opponents and reigning champions, Manchester City, and the fact that we drew a number of games that we should have won. We’ve lost some of our flair, flow and attacking rhythm. But we’re still in there fighting, match by match, grinding out victories often with last-minute goals. A nerve-shredding experience.
Today, March 31, is an absolutely vital game. I arrive very early at the Wee Dram, about 45 minutes before kickoff, around 5:45 p.m. There is a lot of banter, more beer is being drunk than usual, and servers slide through the crowd setting down pizzas that are always shared. Liverpool are playing Tottenham Hotspur, and my son Edward is at the Anfield Road stadium with his mate Ben watching live. Edward is a large part of the reason the fate of Liverpool Football Club in this season’s English Premier League matters so much to me. I deviously programmed him in his childhood years to support Liverpool, and he is now a better, more knowledgeable fan than I. But he has never seen Liverpool win the league; it is 29 years since it last happened. Liverpool won it 13 times during my first 30 years on planet Earth. But that history feels as ancient as Athens itself.
Spurs are a fine team. Some of my best friends are Spurs fans. They didn’t deserve to lose. But, very obligingly, they did, thanks to a goal-keeping blunder from the World Cup-winning French captain Hugo Lloris off a cheeky header from the sinuous Salah that ricocheted into the net off the shin of Toby Alderweireld in the 90th minute of the match. Call it luck, if you like. I choose to call it destiny.
It is hard to describe the feeling of sheer unconfined joy when your team wins. Everything is right with the world and the mind is free of any concern, distance or gnawing introspection. Here at the Wee Dram, there is a genuine feeling of warmth and solidarity among fans. Despite the linguistic limitations, we understand one another very well because we have a team in common. And there are 300 official Liverpool supporters clubs all around the world and countless other millions watching in whatever way they can. After the Spurs game, Ross played the Liverpool anthem, “You’ll Never Walk Alone” by Gerry and the Pacemakers and everyone sang along, bellowing out of tune at the top of their voices. It was really something.
I realize that such rituals are pretty stupid, shallow and far too sentimental, but at such moments I feel a real sense of disinhibited belonging, and other people feel the same.
After the song climaxed and the final chorus faded, I finished my beer and looked for John to say goodbye. But he’d already left.
Will we win the league? Probably not. Manchester City are a better football team. But today we won. I don’t so much walk as glide down the hill to the subway station, texting with Edward and reading the early match reports. I pick up a loaf of bread at the bakery and head back into the center of the city. Life is good.
Athens in Pieces is an eight-part philosophical tour of the ancient city. The entire series can be foundhere.
Simon Critchley is a professor of philosophy at the New School for Social Research and the author of “What We Think About When We Think About Soccer” and the forthcoming “Tragedy, the Greeks, and Us.” He is the moderator of The Stone.
Now in print:“Modern Ethics in 77 Arguments” and “The Stone Reader: Modern Philosophy in 133 Arguments,” with essays from the series, edited by Peter Catapano and Simon Critchley, published by Liveright Books.
The Times is committed to publishinga diversity of lettersto the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are sometips. And here’s our email:letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section onFacebook,Twitter (@NYTopinion)andInstagram.
Young players with dreams of glory think elite training programs lead to riches. They do. Just rarely for them.
A training session at a semi-professional program in Rio de Janeiro in February.CreditCreditDado Galdieri for The New York Times
Supported by
ByTariq PanjaandManuela Andreoni
RIO DE JANEIRO — Even in death the haggling went on.
Christian Esmério was going to be the one — his family had been sure of it.
He was 15 and towering, a soccer player with an easy smile that belied his prowess between the goal posts. Already there was talk of contracts, and of buying a home for his parents, who had poured all their savings into the dream that their son might be the next great Brazilian soccer export — the next Ronaldo, Ronaldinho or Neymar.
Now, his father stood in a daze of grief outside a Rio office building, surrounded by lawyers. Just days earlier, Christian had burned to death ina fireat the youth academy of one of South America’s most famous soccer clubs, Flamengo. He was one of 10 players killed.
The deaths lifted the veil over international soccer’s biggest production line, and raised sweeping questions about a brutal apparatus that chews up untold numbers of young Brazilian boys for every star it mints.
But for the moment, as lawyers sparred over how much money families of the players killed in the blaze should get, there was just one simple question: What was Christian worth?
“Dreams.”
The word hung in the air as Rafael Stival let out a sigh.
Mr. Stival’s for-profit talent scouting operation had posted a note on Facebook mourning three of its graduates who had died in the fire at Flamengo. Since then, the messages had been pouring in.
They were not condolences. The Facebook post had inadvertently acted as an advertisement — a signal to ambitious parents that Mr. Stival’s organization could get their boys into not just any club, but the great Flamengo. They wanted Mr. Stival to give their boys a chance.
The soccer world in Brazil is populated by a variety of actors, some drawn by glory, but almost all attracted by the chance of breaking out of poverty, maybe even striking it rich.
There are the boys, of course, and their families. There are the investors and the middlemen like Mr. Stival, who trawl the continent-size country in search of prospects as young as 9. And there are the teams, many in a state of such financial disarray that only the sale of the latest star keeps them afloat.
The profits from investing wisely, and early, in even a single player can run into the tens of millions of dollars.
To many in the game, the industry has grown out of control. It has morphed from a system intended to develop promising players into an international market whose value is $7 billion a year, according to soccer’s global governing body, FIFA. In this speculative environment, talented young athletes — some of them children — are bought and sold like any other raw material. In Brazil, the best ones are even referred to that way: as “gems.”
No one knows for sure how many boys are in Brazil’s youth soccer system.
There are no official figures. Estimates range from 12,000 to 15,000, but that is hard to corroborate. The Brazilian soccer federation makes no effort to track players until they turn 16 and become professionals.
But one thing is known: On the night of the Flamengo fire, Feb. 8, more than two dozen boys — most from poor families, and all hoping to achieve a dream — were asleep in a club dormitory.
In a country obsessed with soccer, Flamengo prides itself on being the most popular team, with wealth that is the envy of rivals across South America. But that adoration and power, it appears, may have allowed Flamengo to escape for years any real censure for the treatment of boys in its care.
In 2015, Rio state prosecutors sued Flamengo over the conditions at its training center. The prosecutors cited child-protection failures, declaring the conditions to be “even worse than those currently offered to juvenile delinquents.”
City officials issued an order closing the facility in 2017, but never carried it out, limiting their sanctions to dozens of fines.
In recent years, Flamengo spent millions to upgrade its youth academy. Last year, club officials boasted that the new facilities would be the best in Brazil.
But the dormitory holding 26 sleeping boys on the night of the fire was a makeshift structure, consisting of six steel containers fused together. It had never been inspected, according to local authorities.
Interviews with survivors of the fire and officials who investigated it suggest that a series of failures may have contributed to the boys’ deaths:
— Federal regulations require at least one caretaker for every 10 boys, but there was no adult present at the time of the fire.
— Survivors said the only exit from the dorm was at its far end. Some of the boys may have been in beds farther away from the exit than the 33-feet limit required by the regulations.
— The rooms had sliding doors, another violation because they can jam.
— And while each room had a window, the openings were covered with grates.
One boy who was in Christian’s room told investigators their door had stuck when he tried to get out. The boy managed to slide through the window grates. But Christian, a strapping 6-foot-3 goalkeeper, could not. When rescuers got to him, his body was so badly charred he could be identified only through dental records.
Flamengo officials did not respond to interview requests. But in February, its president, Rodolfo Landim, denied knowing about any irregularities when he spoke at a news conference after the fire.
“Our goal is to solve this problem as quickly as possible,” he said.
Soccer is hardly the only industry to attract Brazil’s desperate.
Sergio Rangel, a journalist who has covered the sport for three decades, says the youth-training system reminds him of the giant gold mine inSerra Pelada. The horrific conditions there were immortalized by the photographer Sebastião Salgado in the 1980s.
Desperately poor men from all over the country swarmed the mine’s open pit, turning over rocks in the hope of finding the nugget that would change their lives.
Soccer has also been a fool’s gold of sorts for many families. Some of them move hundreds, even thousands of miles to enroll their sons in training programs that will sort, scrutinize and, more often than not, reject their child as worthless.
“Pick one up, turn it over, and throw it away if it’s no good,” Mr. Rangel said.
The young men are not just disposable. To those who run the industry, they are often indistinguishable.
That much was clear at a memorial for the 10 players who died at Flamengo. Midway through the service, a team official rushed to cover a large montage of photos of the boys: someone had realized that a player who survived had been mistakenly included.
The streets of Xerém, about 50 kilometers outside Rio, teem with boys of various ages in red, green and white jerseys — the colors of the Fluminense soccer club.
Until the team built its training complex there, Xerém was little more than a swamp, locals say. But now, despite the humid heat that tops 100 degrees Fahrenheit, it is home to players and families whose lives revolve around the club.
Among them earlier this year was an 11-year-old nicknamed Maradoninha, for his resemblance to the former Argentine great Diego Maradona. Even in this hotly competitive town, Maradoninha was attracting attention.
Two years ago, a talent scout from Fluminense saw the boy, whose real name is Leandro Gomes Feitosa, play in a local tournament and approached his family. The boy was only 9, and Brazilian law does not allow soccer clubs to house children under 14. But if the family could get to Rio, the scout said, Fluminense would train him.
A group of local businessmen put up the money — for a cut of future proceeds — and the family moved more than 1,200 miles, from the town of Palmas to Xerém, to pursue the dream.
Almost all the families living in their community of 26 rowhouses have a similar story, Maradoninha’s father, Evandro Feitosa, said.
Maradoninha may not be old enough for high school, but he knows his family’s future is tied to his skills with a soccer ball. “God willing,” he said, “I’ll become a big player to help my family in Palmas, my family here and those in need.”
The chances of making it are slim. Fewer than 5 percent of the soccer prospects in Brazilwill ever make it as professionals, by most estimates. Fewer still will earn a decent wage in the game. A study published by the Brazilian soccer federation in 2016 found that 82 percent of soccer players in the country earned less than 1,000 reais ($265) each month.
And for Maradoninha and his family, the odds recently got even slimmer: Fluminense released him.
Whatever the odds, whatever the hardship, there are enough soccer success stories to feed the hopes of young boys and families who have little else to aspire to.
There is Neymar, so successful he is more international brand than player. He is the product of a humble neighborhood on the outskirts of São Paulo. There are Rivaldo, Ronaldo and Romário, three former Brazilian World Cup winners, all awarded the title of best player in the world in their time by FIFA.
And most recently, there is Vinicius Junior, a flashy forward who rose out of Flamengo’s youth ranks. He once trained on the same fields as the 10 boys killed in the fire, and then he began living the dream: in 2017, when he was 16, Spain’s Real Madrid agreed to pay 45 million euros (just over $50 million) for his rights after he played just 11 minutes in his debut game.
All of those players, and hundreds more, have emerged from the Brazil’s soccer mill to ply their trade on the world’s biggest stages.
In his early days in the sport, Christian’s parents used all they had — and borrowed from friends and neighbors — to finance his soccer dream.
He seemed to be getting closer to his own version of the soccer success story. On March 5, the day he turned 16, he was expected to sign his first professional contract at Flamengo. His dream, years in the making, was in reach.
He died four weeks before that birthday.
Days after his death, his father, Cristiano Esmério, was standing outside an office tower in downtown Rio where public defenders were meeting with officials from Flamengo. He was with a group of lawyers. One turned to him.
When it came to compensation, the lawyer said, it would be unfair if Christian's family was treated the same as the others. After all, he said, some of the dead boys had been recent arrivals to the club. But Christian was different: He had been called up to one of Brazil’s youth national teams. Clearly he was worth more than the rest.
Esmério nodded silently. He and his son had discussed money, too.
“Dad, let’s look for a house,” he recalls Christian saying when he got word that he was closing in on a professional contract. “My first paycheck, I want to pay for a house for my mom, so she doesn’t have to suffer because she doesn’t have water or electricity.”
A week before he died, the boy posted a tribute to his family on Facebook. Above two pictures of father and son taken a decade apart, he made a promise:
“All the sacrifice will be compensated, my old man.”
Supported by
ByReuters
RIO DE JANEIRO — The chances of FIFA increasing the number of teams at the 2022 World Cup in Qatar from 32 to 48 is 50/50, the president of soccer's governing body Gianni Infantino said on Wednesday.
Infantino, who is in Brazil for a meeting of the South American Football Confederation, told delegates he was working to ensure the increase for the Qatar tournament, which would mean a guaranteed two extra places for South American sides.
"We are working to see if we can get 48 teams in the 2022 World Cup because more participation means more development and more passion for everyone," he said.
"We’ll see by June whether it is possible or not. (It’s) 50/50. What is 100 percent is that the 2022 World Cup is going to be spectacular and a total success."
A final decision on the number of teams for the next finals will be taken at the FIFA Congress in Paris on June 5.
FIFA chose to host the 2022 World Cup for 32 teams in Qatar, although Infantino has sounded out neighbors over their willingness to host some matches in an expanded tournament.
FIFA has already agreed to increase the number of teams to 48 for the 2026 tournament being co-hosted by the United States, Canada and Mexico but is keen to expand quicker than planned.
(Reporting by Daniela Desantis, Writing by Andrew Downie; editing by Ken Ferris)
Supported by
ByAllie Conti
In a dive bar underneath the Williamsburg Bridge in Brooklyn, fans of an obscure soccer team gathered after an entire workday of information blackout. They spent their Tuesday avoiding calls from family members and social media in its entirety because they didn’t want to spoil the outcome of a match that technically ended long ago, halfway across the world in Germany.
When their team scored what would be their only goal of the game, the supporters chanted raucously for “the boys in brown,” thrusting their pints in the air, none the wiser that it was, as it frequently has been, already a lost cause.
“One of the biggest crimes you could commit with this group is to mention you know the outcome,” said Karl Paranya, who lives in the neighborhood and has been watching the matches since he first stumbled into East River Bar about seven years back. “It can be a bit awkward because our cries don’t do anything for a team that finished eight hours ago, but it feels the same for us.”
The team they follow is F.C. St. Pauli, a tiny club whose games no cable soccer package broadcasts live; it would be like expecting to find anOrlando Solar Bearshockey game on ESPN.
But what draws Mr. Paranya and the rest of the supporters here is the team’s unusual politics: F.C. St. Pauli is an avowed anti-fascist soccer team based in Hamburg that plays in Germany’s second division and hasn’t won the title in more than 40 years, though it runs a kindergarteninsidethe stadium, which displays signs proclaiming “no person is illegal.” The club has a worldwide, international fandom that defines itself in opposition to the racism and violence that characterizes European football hooliganism.
The East River Pirates, as they’re known, are still only maybe one of 10 supporters’ groups in North America, and the only official one in the city. As such, East River Bar has become an unlikely spiritual home for German tourists, as well as a set of extremely devoted American fans who are far more interested in the team for their politics than whether or not they’re in possession of the ball at any given time.
“It’s not like we’re that invested in the game play or the results,” said Shawn Roggenkamp, age 32, who helps coordinate the loose gathering of fans. “But it is a reason for us to get together every week and bring this group of people together who maybe wouldn’t have found each other any other way.”
East River Bar, which began as paint factory and was also a biker hangout in a previous life, was purchased about 15 years ago by Marek Gregorski, a Polish expatriate. His intention was originally to serve food, though he said the money for that part of the business fell through. The cheap drinks, cavernous space, and location next to the Williamsburg Bridge soon attracted a specific clientele, which Mr. Gregorski happily catered to. “At some point we started to get some bike messengers, more and more of them, and we became a staple for hosting messengers and their parties,” Mr. Gregorski said. “They get off work, and this is their first stop to get a beer and relax a little bit.”
The Pirates, who celebrated their 10th anniversary this past November, were initially regarded as oddballs at East River, which is decidedly not a sports bar, unless you count billiards or biking. Out front, there’s a sign featuring an enormous gear and a vending machine selling spare inner tubes. The backyard has communal grills for customer barbecues in warm weather. The inside is sparsely decorated, and being a classic dive, contains only a couple of tiny televisions that are always on but no one pays much attention to. A regular game day will bring a mix of bike punks, New York soccer heads, and Germans on a pilgrimage to watch St. Pauli on a giant projector screen instead.
Ms. Roggenkamp, who works for the auction house Christie’s, was introduced to the cult of St. Pauli about five years ago when she was studying German through a private program. A classmate took her to watch a game at East River. Over the next year and a half, she slowly started to take on a leadership role in the supporters’ club. In keeping with the team’s philosophy, that typically involves passing a collection cup for charity during halftime. The ritual takes on an air of communion — a characterization that Ms. Roggenkamp agrees with.
“I was having a conversation about it with one of my friends the other day,” she said. “And he was like, ‘You talk about this as if it’s your church group.’”
Jah Jah Brown, half of the Brooklyn-based rap duo known asNinjasonik, has been coming to watch games at East River Bar for the past six years because he’s enamored with theteam’s politics. He said that German tourists regularly walk into the bar, which is typically full of bicycles, and have to ask, “Are we in the right spot?”
In fact, the bar is a bridge between the two nations. Mr. Paranya remembered being with a Turkish friend years ago and lamenting that he didn’t have a geographical allegiance to a soccer team as an American. The friend immediately pegged him as a would-be St. Pauli fan, though the comment was initially forgotten. Years later, he and his wife popped into East River Bar for a beer, where a game happened to be screening. After about five minutes, he realized who was playing. “I remembered that I was supposed to like these guys,” Mr. Paranya said. “By the end of the game I was singing all the songs and had purchased a T-shirt.” A few years later, he took a trip to Germany, which he described as a pretense to visit St. Pauli’s stadium. He wore his supporters shirt and made about “20 new best friends,” some of which he now sees occasionally when they come to visit the United States and make their obligatory trip to Williamsburg.
With about 10 minutes left in the game that Tuesday, the other team scored, though not many fans seemed to notice. When they sunk another goal and things seemed good and over, one of the Pirates’ organizers, Sören Thode, switched the broadcast to a YouTube video of the German entertainer Hans Albers’s ode about the Reeperbahn — the red-light district district of working-class Hamburg. People finished their beers and said their goodbyes until the next match on Monday afternoon, though they, of course, wouldn’t be watching until nightfall.


Supported by
ByTariq Panja
ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates — China’s recent attempts to emerge as a serious soccer nation after decades in the sports wilderness have taken some curious turns. One of the more recent ones is visible — or, rather, invisible — at this month’s Asian Cup.
Temperatures in the tournament, which is being played in the United Arab Emirates, can be stifling, making the sight of some Chinese players wearing long-sleeved undershirts beneath their jerseys seem puzzling.
The answer lies in a semiofficial edict from Chinese sports officials issued last year that bans tattoos from being visible during matches. The directive applies to the national team but also to Chinese players in domestic competitions, like the Chinese Super League.
Soccer is now a national priority under President Xi Jinping, and China’s soccer authorities expect the country’s best players to promote positive values to the next generation of athletes and their parents, some of whom remain wary of allowing their children to play a sport they consider to be dangerous or, worse, frivolous. In many ways, the no-tattoos rule is a microcosm of the never-ending wrestling match that China’s central government conducts with its sometimes-dueling allegiances to modernity and control.
The rule can be more onerous for some players than for others. Take the heavily inked central defenderZhang Linpeng. Most of his body, including the entirety of both arms, is heavily tattooed. He has been playing with a compression shirt underneath his national team jersey at the Asian Cup, though he has avoided covering the markings on his right leg and his neck.
Other players have less work to do; a tattooed back or calf is often covered by a player’s uniform, while a smaller bit of artwork can be hidden under athletic tape. (Zhang and others have managed to get some respite: Covering tattoos isn’t mandatory for training sessions.)
The Chinese soccer federation and tournament organizers clearly do not want to talk about the issue, however. At a news conference before a game with South Korea this week that will decide top spot in Group C, a tournament official tried to shut down a question about the tattoos before the Chinese national team coach, Marcello Lippi of Italy, could answer it.
After it was rephrased, Lippi gave a short, diplomatic response, saying he was not unduly concerned by the edict. The team’s captain, Zheng Zhi, sitting to Lippi’s right, stifled a laugh but declined to comment on the issue.
“This is only a detail; I don’t really want to talk about this,” Lippi said through a translator.
A few months before the ink ban was imposed on Chinese soccer players, television stars facedsimilar restrictionsas part of government efforts to control what viewers were being exposed to in the media. The soccer rules were brought in so quickly, though, that some clubs simply chose to heavily bandage their players before they took the field.
The tattoo ban has become a lively topic on Chinese social media. Many people in China appear to support the official view that the players are public figures and should act accordingly. Others have ridiculed the move, which is at odds with a current trend in Western sports, where elaborate tattoos are now as commonplace as cleats and jerseys. Zlatan Ibrahimovic of the Los Angeles Galaxyis covered by them; Barcelona’s Lionel Messi now hasa long sleeve of arton his right arm and another on his left leg.
Zhang, a defender considered one of China’s best players, did not play in two national-team matches after the tattoo ban was established in March. The official reason was injury, but angry fans speculated on social media that China had been thrashed in matches against Wales and the Czech Republic because it was forced to play without Zhang, who they suspected had been benched because of his body art.
China has been pumping millions of dollars into soccer since 2015. A sleepy national league is now backed by some of the country’s biggest companies, whose lavish spending quickly attracted world-class coaches andplayersin search of some of the biggest paydays in the sport. A more intense focus is on creating a national team capable of transforming itself from a punch line into a force that can compete with the best in Asia and, eventually, against the best in the world.
The road to get there has been bumpy, though, with soccer officials, typically political figures, chopping and changing policy, or introducing rules that some have found hard to follow.
Last year, for example, top clubs were taken by surprise when the Chinese Football Association suddenly announced the best young players would be pulled from their club teams midseason and sent for military training, a practice that China has used with top athletes in other sports. Images of players with freshly shaved heads being put through drills by specialty trainers were beamed around the country.
The effects on some teams were significant. Dalian Yifang F.C. lost four straight games and was pulled toward relegation after three of its young starters were called up.
It is unlikely the best young players will be going back to their clubs anytime soon. Plans have been announced to create a team composed of young Chinese to play in the second division for a team recently created by a university in Beijing. The team could function as a kind of second national team.
China’s men’s national team has not played in a World Cup since its first appearance in 2002, when it lost all three of its games. Its leaders have targeted hosting the event in 2030, and winning it by 2050. To do that, Xi has set a target for 20,000 training centers and 70,000 soccer fields to be established by 2020.
The efforts are immediately visible. Private soccer schools have mushroomed in the major cities, and European coaches of varying abilities are being recruited at staggering rates.
Lippi, who won the World Cup as Italy’s manager in 2006, has seen much of it. He moved to China in 2012 to run the big-spending club Guangzhou Evergrande, and has announced that he will step down as national coach after the Asian Cup. He has stressed a focus on youth development as a path to China’s soccer goals.
“Six years ago in China there were not so many young players,” he said. “This is the only way if you want to become stronger in the future. China has to continue to work in this direction.”
Regardless of how fast it improves, however, don’t be surprised to see some players turning up in long sleeves on the way there.



Supported by
ByReuters
(Reuters) - Argentina's national soccer coach Lionel Scaloni has been released from hospital in Mallorca after being hit by a car while riding his bicycle, the Argentine football association said on Tuesday.
"The Argentina coach, Lionel Scaloni, suffered an accident today while cycling. He is now on his way home after being discharged from hospital," the team's Twitter account said.
Spanish newspaper El Mundo said earlier on Tuesday that Scaloni, who was named Argentina's permanent coach in November, was taken to the Hospital Universitario Son Espases on the Spanish island with multiple injuries.
Scaloni later posted a picture of himself on his official Twitter account sporting tape above and below his bruised left eye and on his nose and forehead, with the words: "Many thanks for the messages, a few stitches and now I'm off back home."
Scaloni will oversee the team's Copa America campaign this year, with Argentina bidding to win their first major trophy since 1993.
The 40-year-old made seven appearances for his country as a defender and had a long, varied career which began at Newell's Old Boys, in Rosario in central Argentina.
His longest spell at one club came at Deportivo La Coruna, where he won the La Liga title in 2000, while he also played for Racing Santander and Mallorca in Spain plus West Ham United and Lazio and Atalanta, retiring from playing in 2015.
He became assistant to Jorge Sampaoli at La Liga outfit Sevilla in 2016 and followed him when he became coach of Argentina in 2017.
Sampaoli was sacked in the wake of the side's disastrous 2018 World Cup campaign and their last-16 defeat to France, but Scaloni stayed on as caretaker coach before being handed the job on a permanent basis in November.
(Reporting by Richard Martin; Editing by Christian Radnedge and Hugh Lawson)
Supported by
ByDavid W. ChenandMarc Tracy
As Rudy Meredith was inducted into the Connecticut Soccer Hall of Fame in January to honor his 24-year run as Yale women’s soccer coach, he sprinkled his hallmark humor and humility throughout his remarks.
He recounted how his wife was on the opposite sideline for the University of Hartfordwhen they metin the early 2000s. And he saluted several people in the audience while repeatedly expressing “thankfulness,” recalled Bill Duffy, a middle school principal and soccer lifer who served as master of ceremonies.
There was nothing in Mr. Meredith’s words, Mr. Duffy said, “that would refer to anything that was going on.”
Despite Mr. Meredith’s placid demeanor, people who knew him best had recently begun to detect changes in his behavior. He seemed to be more anxious. He appeared less enthusiastic about soccer, even before he resigned as Yale’s coach in November. He paid little attention to recruiting. He played poorly in pickleball, a paddle sport he usually excelled at.
In hindsight, those hints of stress and fatigue coincided with revelations that Mr. Meredith, 51, had been the linchpin of a sprawling federal investigation into corrupt college admissions schemes thatexploded into public view this week.
At the heart of the scandal was a consultant, William Singer, who took $25 million to help fix exam scores or fraudulently misclassify prospective students as recruited athletes to boost their chances of being admitted to elite colleges. But the person who led federal authorities to Mr. Singer, according to court papers filed on Tuesday, was Mr. Meredith.
In a Boston hotel on April 12, 2018, Mr. Meredith solicited a $450,000 bribe from the parent of a prospective college student in exchange for saving a Yale soccer recruitment spot for his daughter. Mr. Meredith took $2,000 from the parent, and directed the parent to wire future payments to a bank account in Connecticut. But the F.B.I. was secretly recording the conversation, the charging documents said. Then six days later, the parent, who was working with the authorities, wired $4,000 to Mr. Meredith from a bank account in Boston that the F.B.I. controlled, giving the government evidence of wire fraud.
With the authorities on to Mr. Meredith, he told them about a deal he had struck in November 2017, when Mr. Singer had introduced him to a man who wanted his daughter to attend Yale. Mr. Singer helped doctor the application to make it seem as though she was the co-captain of a prominent club soccer team in Southern California, even though she did not play at that level, according to the government documents. But Mr. Meredith told the admissions office he wanted to recruit her, and after she was admitted, Mr. Singer paid the coach $400,000.
Late Friday, Yale released a statement in which it said one student involved in the scheme was admitted and is attending now, while the other was denied admission. In the statement, Peter Salovey, the university president, called the criminal actions “an affront to our community’s deeply held values of fairness, inclusion and honesty.” Mr. Salovey said the university was starting an internal investigation into its admissions process.
Prosecutors said on Tuesday that Mr. Meredith had agreed to plead guilty to wire fraud, honest services wire fraud and conspiracy to commit honest services wire fraud.
Mr. Meredith did not respond to a request for comment. Paul Thomas, Mr. Meredith’s lawyer, who works ata New Haven firm founded by Felice Duffy, a former Yale soccer coachwho later became a federal prosecutor and lawyer, declined to comment.
It was a dramatic fall for a man considered to be a Yale institution. Mr. Meredith started as an assistant coach in 1992, rose to head coach in 1995 and led the team to its first unshared Ivy League title in 2005.
The charges blindsided virtually everyone who knew Mr. Meredith, according to interviews with more than a dozen former players and others connected to Yale or soccer. Mr. Meredith was generous and well liked, and did not appear to have any health, financial or personal problems.
“I’m both appalled and sympathetic — I would never have thought that he was capable of doing this,” said Sharon Eisen, a veterinarian who became friendly with the Merediths in recent years through pickleball, in which Mr.Meredithis anational-level player and coach. “On the one hand, I know them and like them personally. But on the other hand, I’ve lost all respect. So greedy. So immoral.”
Mr. Meredith grew up modestly in the Rockville, Md., area, and was an all-state soccer player at Richard Montgomery High School. But he failed classes while at Montgomery College, and almost quit school. After undergoing tests at the urging of his coach andbeing found to have a learning disability, he turned his life around, and ultimately transferred to Southern Connecticut State. The university’s men’s soccer program was then a Division II powerhouse. Mr. Meredith played on the 1990 N.C.A.A. championship team, then embarked on a career coaching soccer and teaching physical education.
Robert Kehoe, director of college programs for the National Soccer Coaches Association of America, said he first met Mr. Meredith in 1996 and worked closely with the Yale women’s team for the next several years as part of a development workshop he used to conduct.
“He had a lot of credibility because he was a very good player in his own right,” Mr. Kehoe said.
Mr. Meredith quickly fostered an energetic atmosphere. He required players to wear costumes for Halloween practice. He bought bagels and extra food on his own dime for long bus rides to away games, while good-naturedly enduring the film “Dirty Dancing” at his players’ behest.
Yale enjoyed success in the mid-2000s, with the 2005 team reaching the third round of the N.C.A.A. tournament, knocking out third-seeded Duke in the process. Mr. Meredith coached several Ivy League players of the year and anall-Americansecond-teamer who was profiled by ESPN. Meredith Speck, class of 2015, was the first Yale player in the National Women’s Soccer League, according toYale's alumni magazine.
“The thing I remember is how professionally he treated us,” said Theryn Gibbons, who was a member of Meredith’s first recruiting class in 1996 and now ranks third on Yale’s scoring list. “Refs were calling me Babe, and Rudy was never like that — we were athletes. He was very respectful, very sensitive.”
If anything, Ms. Gibbons said, Mr. Meredith sometimes seemed intimidated by the aura of Yale, and tried hard to be liked.
“He’s not sophisticated by any means, and I know he would defer to people who he thought were smarter,” said Ms. Gibbons, who later became a federal prosecutor. “He’s very trusting, and gullible for sure.”
She added, “I’m not condoning what is alleged, but he’s family, and you stand by family.”
Mr. Meredith’s wife, Eva Bergsten Meredith, was also a familiar presence at Yale soccer events. A former national team player for Sweden, she is the longtime women’s soccer coach at Wesleyan, and has also run, with her husband,Bulldog Cardinal soccer campfor many years.
In 2013, in what former players said was an unusual move, the Yale women’s coaching position itself was endowed in Mr. Meredith’s name, thanks to an anonymous donation: For a time, Rudy Meredith was the Rudolph L. Meredith Head Coach of Women’s Soccer. Even after Mr. Meredith’s resignation in November, the name stuck: When Brendan Flaherty was hired as Mr. Meredith’s replacement the next month, it was as the Loring Family and Rudolph L. Meredith Head Coach of Women’s Soccer.
Now, Mr. Flaherty is listed on Yale’s website as simply the Loring Family coach. It was not immediately clear when or why Yale made the change. A university spokesman said Mr. Meredith was not involved in funding and naming the position.
In recent years, Yale’s teams did not perform as well as they had in the 2000s, and players and friends began to suspect that Mr. Meredith wasno longer as gung-ho about soccer.
Adele Jackson-Gibson, a Yale goalkeeper who graduated in 2013 and is now a freelance writer in Brooklyn, said she “could feel people become more defeated over time.” She added, “People seem tired and a little bit checked out.”
Some players, speaking on condition of anonymity so as not to be ensnared in the investigation, also began to notice a player or two, every couple of years, who did not belong on a Division I team, based on their skill level. Some of those players came from wealthy families, prompting speculation that their parents had donated money in exchange for coveted recruiting spots.
In August 2017, the Merediths purchased a vacation home in Fernandina Beach, Fla., for $125,000, and took out a construction loan for $359,250, records show. The next month, Mr. Meredith was badly shaken, friends say, bythe unexpected deathof Fritz Rodriguez, a longtime assistant coach who had been Mr. Meredith’s roommate and teammate in college. So his resignation in November 2018 did not come as a complete surprise to some.
What few knew, of course, was that he had been cooperating with federal authorities for roughly half a year.
A Yale spokesman said the university learned about the scheme and the federal investigation only after the announcement that he was leaving.
Mr. Duffy, the M.C. at the Hall of Fame ceremony, summed up the feelings of many people close to Mr. Meredith when he said that he was still processing the gravity of the scandal.
“In the soccer community, we’re saddened by Rudy’s personal involvement, whatever that may be,” he said. “I think more people are angry that more deserving players were overlooked.”
Katie Benner contributed reporting, and Susan C. Beachy contributed research.



Supported by
ByThe Associated Press
FIFA president Gianni Infantino has called for a crackdown on racism at soccer games after several high-profile incidents, and encouraged referees to abandon matches in the worst cases.
"We will not hesitate to do everything in our power to eradicate racism, and any other form of discrimination, from football, at any level and anywhere in the world," the head of world soccer's governing body said in a statement on Saturday.
Infantino referred to the "three-step procedure" at tournaments, a measure that was brought in at the 2017 Confederations Cup and which allows a referee to stop a game, suspend a game and ultimately abandon a game if discriminatory behavior persists.
"FIFA urges all member associations, leagues, clubs and disciplinary bodies to adopt the same procedure, as well as a zero-tolerance approach to incidents of racism in football, and to apply harsh sanctions for any such kind of behavior," Infantino said. "Racism has no place in football, just as it has no place in society either."
Infantino's intervention comes one day after Amiens' French league game at Dijon was temporarily halted after the visiting side's captain Prince Gouano was subjected to racist insults.
"I heard monkey noises," said Gouano, who asked the referee to stop the game. The French league said the alleged perpetrator was subsequently identified and arrested.
FIFA says it fully supports Gouano, as well as players such as Kalidou Koulibaly, Raheem Sterling and Danny Rose, who were also subjected to racist abuse.
Tottenham defender Rose went so far as to say he was looking forward to retiring from the game in the future because of ongoing racism and a lack of action from authorities.
Rose was among England players targeted with monkey chants in Montenegro last month while playing in a European Championship qualifier.
"In recent days, it has been very sad to see a number of racist incidents in football," Infantino said. "This is really not acceptable."
FIFA disbanded its anti-racism task force early in Infantino's presidency in 2016, saying it had "completely fulfilled its temporary mission."
Later Saturday, Premier League club West Ham said it will ban any fans who were filmed chanting anti-Semitic abuse about rival Tottenham ahead of West Ham's game at Manchester United.
West Ham said it was "disgusted" by the video circulating on Twitter.
___
Supported by
ByManuela Andreoni,Shasta DarlingtonandTariq Panja
RIO DE JANEIRO — Fire consumed a dormitory early Friday at a Brazilian training center for teenage soccer players run by one of South America’s most prominent teams, killing at least 10 in a disaster that reverberated through the soccer world and beyond.
The fire in the dormitory, which may have been constructed improperly on what was intended to be a parking lot, was the latest in a string of seemingly preventable tragedies that have convulsed Brazil over the past two weeks.
It struck the training center of the Flamengo club in Rio de Janeiro, breaking out in the early morning when many youth players, ages 14 to 17, were asleep. Three others were injured, one seriously, and were taken to a hospital.
Officials would not confirm the identities of the dead. But Globoesporte, a Brazilian sports news website,saidall were players. The dorm housed 26 players and 13 escaped unharmed, the website said.
“The location was completely consumed in flames,” Douglas Henaut, a lieutenant with firefighters,told journalists at the scene. “Unfortunately, we weren’t able to rescue anyone inside. As much as we tried to enter and locate the victims, it wasn’t possible. The bodies were found totally charred.”
Flamengo is one of Brazil’s most popular soccer clubs and is considered a symbol of the country’s global dominance in the training and development of young athletes who aspire to join professional soccer.
Some of Brazil’s biggest stars have played with Flamengo, among them Romário, Ronaldinho and Zico, who represented the country in World Cups, and many others who have played for high-profile teams abroad.
The club’s training center, known as Ninho do Urubu, or Vulture’s Nest, in the western part of the city, had recently undergone renovations. Rio officials confirmed local news reports that the dormitory had been erected in what was supposed to be a parking lot, with no permits for construction, and was going to be torn down after the occupants moved into a new dorm.
“The fire was in my room,” Felipe Cardoso, 15, who plays for the Flamengo youth team,wrote on Twitter. “I have only God to thank for managing to wake up and escape death, may God comfort my brothers.”
For players accepted to the youth team, it was the Brazilian equivalent of joining the Dallas Cowboys. Avideo postedby a team member who was away when the fire erupted showed their exuberant camaraderie in the dorm.
President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil, who is hospitalized after intestinal surgery,posted a condolence messageon social media: “This morning we were made aware of the sad tragedy in the Flamengo training center, taking the young lives of those who were beginning the path toward the realization of their professional dreams.”
Firefighters said they were alerted to the blaze at 5:17 a.m. local time, and Rio de Janeiro prosecutors said they had created a task force to investigate the cause.
The fire comes two weeks aftera dam brokein the most lethal mining disaster in Brazil’s history, and just two days aftera powerful summer stormin Rio de Janeiro set off flooding and mudslides, killing six.
The disasters have shocked and saddened Brazilians and have highlighted the country’s shoddy infrastructure and poor emergency response.
“We are seeing a succession of avoidable, preventable facts and disasters, and we must pay attention to them so that the institutions of control, enforcement and punishment really work in Brazil,” the country’s prosecutor general, Raquel Dodge, said in Brasília, the capital, after news of the fire spread.
The blaze also focused attention on living conditions for young Brazilian soccer players, many of whom come from underprivileged backgrounds and live in dormitories like Flamengo’s across the vast country.
“It’s hard to imagine what Flamengo means for these boys,” said Juca Kfouri, a Brazilian sports columnist and author. “In Brazil, there are only two legal paths to social improvement for them: entertainment and soccer. Otherwise it’s a life of crime.”
Mr. Kfouri said he was not familiar with the dormitory at the Flamengo training ground, but he said that living conditions at soccer clubs in Brazil historically were atrocious — including a case in which boys were housed in one dormitory built underneath the stands and another infested with rats.
“Training at Flamengo is realizing your life’s goal,” Mr. Kfouri said. “But now it’s a dream turned into a nightmare.”
He added that the death toll in the fire was most likely lower than it could have been because training had been suspended after the widespread flooding in Rio, and some boys had gone home.
Zico, one of Brazil’s soccer legends, sent reporters a video lamenting the tragedy. He said he had met some of the boys who died in the fire. “We ended up getting close to them,” he said. “Boys with dreams, goals, a lot of them trying to help their families.”
Rival clubs expressed sympathy on social media. The messages included onefrom Chapecoense, which suffered its own tragedy just over two years ago whena plane carrying team membersto an international competitionran out offueland crashed, killing nearly all of the 77 people on board.
One of soccer’s most recent breakout stars, the Real Madrid forward Vinícius Júnior, who was developed in Flamengo’s youth ranks and lived at the academy,took to Twitter to express his horrorat the fire. He wrote that he was in shock and called for prayers.
While Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy, is known for its exports of meat, metal and coffee, nothing garners as much attention as the soccer players it dispatches at a rate unmatched anywhere.
Brazilian players form the backbone of soccer’s $7 billion player trading industry. Last year alone 832 players left on overseas adventures, according to data provided by soccer’s global governing body, FIFA.
While a few, like the star forward Neymar, will make it to the biggest stages of the game, most are soccer’s workhorses, providing a Brazilian touch to professional teams from East Timor to the Faroe Islands looking to fill their rosters with reliable, well-coached and relatively inexpensive talent.
Back home in Brazil, rampant inequality and a lack of other opportunities mean, the supply of young, gifted soccer players looking for a way out of grinding poverty is almost limitless.
Flamengo’s newly renovated facility opened late last year, at a cost of about $6 million, and was part of a complete overhaul of the club’s youth development system.
Besides five training fields, a swimming pool and gym facilities, the complex was to contain accommodations for 48 players to live on site: 36 single bedrooms, and six doubles.
Occupants of the dorm that burned had been scheduled to move into a new building next month, according to local news media reports.
Flamengo also had engaged Double Pass, a Belgian consulting firm that specializes in soccer youth development, to modernize the way it trained players.
Alexandre Wrobel, a vice president at the club, has been quoted by Brazilian media as saying the youth training facility it would be among the top five in soccer.
Such modern surroundings remain comparatively rare in South America, where many clubs cannot call on the lucrative television deals and sponsorship arrangements that bankroll teams in Europe.
Manuela Andreoni reported from Rio de Janeiro, Shasta Darlington from São Paulo, Brazil, and Tariq Panja from London. Rory Smith contributed reporting from Manchester, England.



Supported by
On Soccer
ByRory Smith
DORTMUND, Germany — There are times these days when Marco Reus finds himself in the middle of the field at Borussia Dortmund’s Signal Iduna Park, watching as Jadon Sancho and Jacob Bruun Larsen and Achraf Hakimi tear around him, a blur of yellow and black, and remembering what it was like to be young.
Not that Reus is what most of us would call old; he is not quite what his peers would call old, either. That is how he feels, though. “I am old, my friend,” he said. “In our business, now, when you are 29 or 30, you are old.” He delivers it with a smile, an acknowledgment that he is hamming it up, just a little, but the sentiment is real.
Reus feels old in the sense that he is starkly aware that he is no longer young. He knows that whenever he sees Sancho, Larsen and the rest of Dortmund’s shooting stars, the way they play with boldness and fearlessness. They look to him like “young horses,” wild and free.
Reus knows that feeling well, that glorious weightlessness, unencumbered by thoughts of “what will happen later, what happens after you finish,” the end so distant that you cannot believe it will ever come.
He was like that once, when he was one of the standard-bearers of the new German generation that was going to lift the World Cup in 2014, a winger of pace and cunning and dead-eyed finishing, first with Borussia Mönchengladbach and then as part — a key part —of Jürgen Klopp’sDortmund team.
He remembers it well enough to know that he no longer has it, that it has disappeared at some point along the way. And yet it is hard to conceive of Reus as a “veteran,” as he puts it. Partly, that is because he does not really look the part. His hair is a little darker than it used to be, no longer colored a bright blond, but his face is still smooth-skinned, and his voice is still soft, boyish. He hardly fits the stereotype of the grizzled, wizened pro.
And partly it is because it feels as if Reus, even on the cusp of his 30th birthday, is still somehow a talent-in-waiting, his potential not yet fully tapped. For a player regarded as one of Europe’s best for much of the last decade, he has an air of one of the sport’s lost boys.
When Dortmund re-signed Reus — he was released from its youth system as a teenager — after its last Bundesliga title, in 2012, he was supposed to be the player who lifted the club to the next level.
Klopp believed Reus represented a scarcely believable bargain — “his real market value is much higher” than the nearly $20 million he cost, he said — while the Dortmund chief executive, Hans-Joachim Watzke, felt Reus might be able to “define an era” for the club, in the way that “Uwe Seeler did at Hamburg and Steven Gerrard at Liverpool.”
Franz Beckenbauer identified him, along with Mario Götze, as Germany’s brightest hopes. The two helped Dortmund to the 2013 Champions League final; Reus was penciled in as a starter inJoachim Löw’sGermany team for the 2014 World Cup.
And then, 10 hours before Germany was scheduled to travel to Brazil, Reus tore his ankle ligaments in his final pretournament friendly. He punched the ground in frustration. Germany’s team flew without him. It came home a month later as the world champion.
Reus did his rehab, returned to fitness, seemed ready to break through into the elite once more. Before the European Championship in 2016, Löw said that Reus “hugely enriched” the Germany side. But he missed that tournament through injury, too (Germany reached the semifinals).
Another recovery, another fresh start. In 2017, EA Sports made him the cover star of that year’s edition of its FIFA game, an honor usually afforded to Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo; that was the sort of company Reus was expected to keep. Dortmund made the German Cup final that year. Reus, after so many delays, had the first silverware of his career in his grasp.
He picked up an injury in the first half. At halftime, Dortmund’s doctors informed him that they believed he had torn his anterior cruciate ligament, and that he would be sidelined for six months, eight months, maybe more. He called his parents, and his girlfriend, Scarlett, and cried. “It’s bad,” he told them. Dortmund went on to win.
That evening, Reus stopped to talk to reporters. They asked him if he knew the extent of the injury. “It is just a little cruciate,” he told them. Dortmund’s communications team was baffled. There is, they knew, and Reus knew, no such thing as a little cruciate injury.
“Negative experiences teach you what to say,” Reus said, explaining how he could be so relaxed. It was not, though, an act of bravado. He had suffered injuries before, setbacks bad enough that he had once said he would happily trade all of the money he had made during his career for his fitness.
This injury was the worst of all of them, and yet it had, he said, “caused something in my head to accept it.” That is not to say he did not suffer. In the hospital, a couple of days later, “once the adrenaline had worn off,” Reus felt that familiar bleakness setting in. He still had times when he “got emotional, angry, screamed, cried,” but he knew that he had to get it out, get over it, get on with it.
“If it stays inside, you get sad, and you never get to the point where you can make the next step,” he said. “You can be sad for a couple of days, and nobody will be angry with you. But for weeks and months? It does not help.”
He did not, though — not then, not during any of his injuries, not during any of the time that he lost — start to feel he was cursed. He never asked why this was happening to him, why he had so much snatched away from him, why fate seemed arranged that he would remain a what if, one of those players who never quite becomes — through no fault of his own — what he was supposed to be.
“It is human to think about what I have missed,” he said. “But if I regret too much, think about what I have lost, I lose focus on what I need to do. You cannot rewind. This is not a computer game that you can play again. All I can do is try to be better, to be luckier, next time.”
That is not the only change in perspective injury has afforded him. “You have a lot of time to think about other things, too,” he said. Over the eight months of his rehabilitation, Reus — by his own estimation — grew up. “You become aware of what you are doing, and what comes next, and when that will start,” he said.
He turns 30 in May. By that stage, if all goes well, he will have become a father for the first time. He is no longer young, even if he is not quite old. “I have three or four years left,” he said of his playing career. “That is still quite a period, but football goes fast.”
He has made no firm decisions on what he will do when his career ends — he would prefer not to go into senior management, but coach children, if he stays in soccer, because that is when “you should be having the most fun” — though he has a few ideas. He has not forgotten what it is to be footloose, carefree, but that does not mean he envies Sancho, Larsen and his other young teammates. He does not resent the clock for ticking.
“The injuries have taught me to enjoy the time I have on the field, the time I am training with the guys,” he said. “As you get older, you learn it will end at some point, and so you cherish the moments you are healthy.” Those young horses are lucky, he knows, to feel it will never end. But he would not trade places with them. When you know that time is limited, and time is precious, you appreciate it all the more.
Follow Rory Smith on Twitter:@RorySmith.




Supported by
ByAustin Ramzy
A soccer player who was jailed in Thailand and faced being sent back to his native Bahrain, where he said hewould be imprisoned and tortured, was released Monday after Thai prosecutors dropped the extradition case against him.
On Tuesday afternoon, the player, Hakeem al-Araibi, arrived back in Australia, where he has refugee status. He was greeted at the airport in Melbourne by a swarm of well-wishers, who started singing, “You’ll Never Walk Alone,” a popular soccer anthem.
“Amazing to see all the people here,” he said. “I’m going to die in Australia. Australia is my country,” he added. “I love Australia.”
Mr. al-Araibi, 25, who had been a star defender for the Bahrain national soccer team, fled the small Gulf nation in 2011 during a crackdown on Arab Spring protesters. He said he had been tortured by government security forces. He has been playing soccer for a minor team in Melbourne, Australia.
After his arrest in November at an airport in Bangkok, he became thefocus of lobbying by diplomats, prominent sports figuresand a social media campaign under the hashtag #savehakeem.
Mr. al-Araibi left for Australia as soon as his departure was approved.
“This is the best outcome,” said his lawyer, Natalie Bergman. “It should have happened from the beginning, but later is better than nothing.”
After Mr. al-Araibi’s arrival in Australia, Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Foreign Affairs Minister Marise Payne released a joint statement commending the Thai government for its decision and noting the “constructive dialogue that we have had with Bahrain in helping to resolve this issue.”
The statement added: “We know all Australians will deeply appreciate the decision, allowing him to return to his wife, family and friends.”
Mr. al-Araibi traveled to Thailand last year for a honeymoon and was detained with his wife. She was released, but Mr. al-Araibi remained in detention as Bahrain pursued his extradition.
He had been convicted in absentia and sentenced to 10 years in prison for charges including the burning of a police station, which he said occurred while he was playing in a televised match.
The royal family of Bahrain, which is Sunni Muslim, has pursued an aggressive crackdown against calls for democracy from the kingdom’s Shiite Muslim majority, including a campaign of widespread arrests and many convictions on what human rights groups say are trumped-up charges.
Thailand, which has been run by a military junta since a 2014 coup, has sent people fleeing political oppressionback to countries including China, raising fears that Mr. al-Araibi would also be returned.
But the country has also shown signs that it can be moved by international pressure.
Last month, a Saudi woman who said she was fleeing abuse from her familybarricaded herself in a Bangkok airport hotel roomand rallied support to her cause online. The woman, Rahaf Mohammed Alqunun, 18, was allowed to leave the airport after a two-day standoff andwas granted asylum in Canada.
Mr. al-Araibi received widespread support from the international sports world, including FIFA, the international body that oversees global soccer; the International Olympic Committee; and the World Players Association, an umbrella group representing 85,000 professional athletes worldwide.
Jamie Vardy, a striker for the English Premier League club Leicester City,expressed supportfor Mr. al-Araibi on Twitter, and Craig Foster, a broadcaster and former captain of the Australian national men’s team, was a prominent advocate for his release.
“This is a big victory for that global campaign and marks the fact that football will have to play an important role in human rights going forward,” said Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director for Human Rights Watch. “They call football the beautiful game, and it is a beautiful day for the beautiful game.”
Mr. Foster, who lobbied FIFA officials and shouted his support to Mr. al-Araibi when he appeared at a hearing last week in leg shackles, expressed his gratitude to the Thai government for dropping the case.
“Most important thing now is Hakeem’s immediate well-being,” Mr. Fostersaid on Twitterafter the ruling was announced. “Sure embassy staff will take care of him, there’ll be tears there tonight, as there are in our household right now.”
When Mr. al-Araibi arrived in Melbourne, Mr. Foster placed his arms around his shoulders.
“To see him back here on home soil today speaks volumes about the character, the values and the pride that we have as Australians,” Mr. Foster said.
The Thai foreign minister, Don Pramudwinai, visited Bahrain and met on Sunday with Salman bin Hamad al-Khalifa, the crown prince, the state-runBahrain News Agency reported. No details of their discussion were released.
The decision to drop the case came after the government of Bahrain told Thai diplomats that it did not want to pursue it, said Chatchom Akapin, director general for international affairs for the Thai attorney general’s office.
“We got information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs this morning that Bahrain is not interested in extraditing Hakeem anymore,” he said. “Therefore, the attorney general office decided it was no use to pursue the case.”
Follow Austin Ramzy on Twitter:@austinramzy.
Muktita Suhartono and Jenina Ibañez contributed reporting.



Supported by
ByAndrew Das
Twenty-eight members of the world champion United States women’s soccer team significantly escalated their long-running fight with the country’s soccer federation over pay equity and working conditions, filing a gender discrimination lawsuit on Friday.
The suit, in United States District Court in Los Angeles, comes only three months before the team will begin defense of its Women’s World Cup title at this summer’s tournament in France. In their filing and a statement released by the team, the 28 players described “institutionalized gender discrimination” that they say has existed for years.
The discrimination, the athletes said, affects not only their paychecks but also where they play and how often, how they train, the medical treatment and coaching they receive, and even how they travel to matches.
The players involved — stars like Alex Morgan, Megan Rapinoe and Carli Lloydand their teammates— include some of the most accomplished and best-known female athletes in the world, members of a team that has been a leading force in women’s sports for more than a generation.
The court filing of the lawsuit brought by U.S. Women’s Soccer players against the United States Soccer Federation alleging violations of the Equal Pay Act and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act. (PDF, 25 pages, 0.23 MB)
The players’ continuing battle with U.S. Soccer, which is not only their employer, but also the federation that governs the sport in America, has thrust them to the forefront ofa broader fight for equalityin women’s sports. In recent years, players, teams and even athletes in other sports —American hockey gold medalists, Canadian soccer pros, W.N.B.A. players— have reached out to the United States players and their union for guidance in their efforts to win similar gains in pay and working conditions.
“I think to be on this team is to understand these issues,” Rapinoe said in a telephone interview. “And I think we’ve always — dating back to forever — been a team that stood up for itself and fought hard for what it felt it deserved and tried to leave the game in a better place.”
Friday’s legal action is the latest flash point in a yearslong fight for pay equity and equal treatment by the national team, which has long chafed — first privately, but increasingly publicly — about the compensation, support and working conditions it receives while representing U.S. Soccer. The women’s players argue that they are required to play more games than the men’s team, that they win more of them, and yet still receive less pay from the federation.
[Sign up for theSports newsletter.]
For decades, U.S. Soccer has been a world leader in its support for women’s soccer; its investment of time and resources has made the United States, which is a three-time world champion and a four-time Olympic gold medalist, the dominant power in the women’s game. But throughout that period, generations of women’s national team players have complained that the federation’s financial support and logistical infrastructure have lagged behind that of the more high-profile men’s team.
Those grievances have never been far from the surface; an earlier generation of top women’s players angry about their payboycotted a tournament in Australia in January 2000, only months after a World Cup victory had made them the toast of American sports. The dispute between the team and the federation burst into the open more recently as an increasingly emboldened and activist women’s team took on U.S. Soccer and FIFA, soccer’s global governing body, over everything fromartificial turf fieldstoWorld Cup bonus paymentstorefereeing standards.
The players’ prominence and willingness to leverage their profiles and enormous social media followings in support of their cause have paid dividends: FIFA doubled the prize money pool for this summer’s Women’s World Cup only after the United States team’s complaints drew attention to how far it lagged behind the pool for the much richer men’s event, and the team has not played a match on artificial turf, a surface many players disdain,since 2017. The United States women flew on a chartered flight — once an unthinkable luxury for the squad — between matches as recently as last week, and U.S. Soccer has eliminated other inequities on topics as disparate as meal money and hotel accommodations.
The respect they have won has spread, too: Spain’s national team rose up todemandthe ouster of its coach after the last World Cup, and several prominent members of Brazil’s squadquit their team to protestthe ouster of a popular female coach in favor of a man. Players from Argentina and Colombia have gone public about mistreatment and meager pay, and Norway’s players demanded — and won — equal pay with their men’s counterparts. That, too, several United States players said, was part of their motivation to press ahead with their suit only months before they turn their focus to retaining their world championship.
“We very much believe it is our responsibility,” Rapinoe said, “not only for our team and for future U.S. players, but for players around the world — and frankly women all around the world — to feel like they have an ally in standing up for themselves, and fighting for what they believe in, and fighting for what they deserve and for what they feel like they have earned.”
U.S. Soccer did not respond to a request for comment.
Direct comparisons between the compensation of the men’s and women’s teamscan be complicated. Each team has its own collective bargaining agreement with U.S. Soccer, and among the major differences is pay structure: The men receive higher game bonuses when they play for the United States, but are paid only when they make the team, while the women receive guaranteed salaries supplemented by smaller match bonuses.
One of the biggest differences in compensation is the multimillion-dollar bonuses the teams receive for participating in the World Cup, but those bonuses — a pool of $400 million for 32 men’s teams versus $30 million for 24 women’s teams — are determined by FIFA, world soccer’s governing body, not U.S. Soccer.
The bulk of the suit mirrors many of the issues raised in a wage discrimination complaintfiled by five United States playerswith the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 2016. Frustrated by a lack of progress on that complaint after nearly three years of inaction, the players received permission from the federal agency in February to sue instead. (One of the players on the original complaint, the former goalkeeper Hope Solo,filed her own gender discrimination lawsuitagainst U.S. Soccer in August.)
The suit offers a new forum but also new hurdles. The players, represented by Jeffrey Kessler, who has been involved in labor fights innearly every major American sport, will have to prove not only that their team and the men’s squad do the same work, but also overcome questions about the differences in their pay structures and their negotiated collective bargaining agreements. And the C.B.A. has already left them without one bit of leverage: The players cannot strike to press their case at least until it expires at the end of 2021.
But to experts in gender discrimination and Title IX cases, the argument they are making is familiar.
“These are the same kinds of arguments and claims that we still see at every level of education for women and girls, from K through 12 to college,” said Neena Chaudhry, the general counsel of the National Women’s Law Center in Washington. “It’s unfortunately a sad continuation of the way that women and girls in sports are treated in the U.S.”




Supported by
ByTariq Panja
LONDON — The diplomatic standoff between Qatar and its Arab neighbors spilled into the sports world once again Thursday as a Qatari vice president of Asia’s soccer confederation was barred from traveling to the United Arab Emirates ahead of the region’s top tournament.
Saoud al-Mohannadi, vice president of the Asian Football Confederation, was denied permission to travel from Oman to the U.A.E. after airport officials said he wouldn’t be let into the country. The U.A.E., with Saudi Arabia and a handful of other Mideast countries, broke diplomatic relations andsevered all ties with Qatar in 2017.
Mohannadi is the chairman of the A.F.C.’s competitions committee, a group with overall responsibility for the Asian Cup. Prohibiting him from traveling to the U.A.E. is the first sign that long-simmering political tensions in the Gulf are likely to have ramifications for continent’s biggest tournament.
Mohannadi immediately wrote a letter of complaint to Sheikh Salman bin Ibrahim al-Khalifa, the Bahraini royal who is the A.F.C.’s current president. The organization said in a statement that it was aware of reports that Mohannadi was being denied the right to travel and that it would investigate. The A.F.C. said it had been “assured of visas and entry permits” for tournament organizing committee members and executives.
The Saudi-led diplomatic dispute with Qatarincluded the suspension of flightsbetween Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, as well as several other countries. Only recently have Qatari citizens been allowed to apply for permission to travel between the two countries. Such travel typically requires a visa and an approval letter from local authorities.
Mohannadi, who in 2017 successfully managed to overturn a one-year FIFA ethics ban, had applied to enter the U.A.E. Local organizers told him he could travel there even though he had not received official clearance, according to people familiar with the matter. He traveled from Doha to Muscat, Oman’s capital, where he was told his clearance was not registered.
The soccer federation in Qatar, which will host the World Cup in 2022, said in a statement that it had reached out to the A.F.C. about the matter. “We will comment further once we have an official response on the incident,” the federation said.
The diplomatic dispute, which exploded in the spring of 2017, has already impacted regional sports. Players and officials on teams from countries opposed to Qatar initially refused to speak to beIN Sports, the Qatari-owned network that owns the rights to the A.F.C.’s events. For much of the past year, BeoutQ, a bootlegging television network, has been unimpeded in broadcasting pirated beIN Sports events using a satellite operator based in Saudi Arabia.
BeoutQ was launchedin response to the governments of Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E. blocking the sale of beIN Sports as part of a blockade that has closed off air and sea access between the countries.
Mohannadi’s travel plans are unlikely to be the last flashpoint in the 24-team tournament that kicks off on Saturday. The draw, made in May, set up a match between foes Qatar and Saudi Arabia on Jan. 17. It’s unlikely many, if any, Qatari supporters will make the trip to Abu Dhabi.
“That’s almost more difficult to imagine than the U.S. national soccer team playing Iran in Tehran,” said Neil Quilliam, a senior research fellow with the Middle East and North Africa program at London’s Chatham House, a British foreign affairs think tank. “There will be some jittery people in Qatar hoping their players make it home.”
Mohannadi is one of two candidates who will be challenging Sheikh Salman for the A.F.C.’s presidency later this year. The other candidate is Mohammed Khalfan al-Romaithi, a sports official from the U.A.E.



Supported by
ByReuters
(Reuters) - Chelsea midfielder Danny Drinkwater has no future at the Premier League club because he is not suited to their style of play, manager Maurizio Sarri said on Wednesday.
Drinkwater joined Chelsea from Leicester City for a reported 35 million pounds in 2017 but last played for the London club in the Community Shield in August.
The midfielder was charged with drink driving earlier this week and was left out of Chelsea's squad for their trip to face Slavia Prague in the Europa League quarter-finals later on Thursday.
"(Drinkwater) has never played because... he's not suitable to my system, to my way of playing," Sarri told reporters.
"Maybe I'm wrong, but it's my opinion. I spoke with him in August, when the market was still open, and said he should look for something different because he wouldn't play. And I told him the reasons, my reasons.
"I don't know (why he decided to stay). Probably he hoped we could change the system. I have a very good relationship with him because, in my opinion, he's a good boy... but he's not suitable for me."
Sarri plans to make five or six changes for the Europa League match and says his side will need to be on their toes to get a result.
"In my opinion, this is a very dangerous match for us," he added. Slavia are a fast team, so we need to be very, very compact and defend really very well.
"They are dangerous, especially on crosses where they attack the box with five or six players, and are dangerous on counter-attacks. So it won't be easy for us."
(Reporting by Rohith Nair in Bengaluru; Editing by Simon Jennings)
Young players with dreams of glory think elite training programs lead to riches. They do. Just rarely for them.
A training session at a semi-professional program in Rio de Janeiro in February.CreditCreditDado Galdieri for The New York Times
Supported by
ByTariq PanjaandManuela Andreoni
RIO DE JANEIRO — Even in death the haggling went on.
Christian Esmério was going to be the one — his family had been sure of it.
He was 15 and towering, a soccer player with an easy smile that belied his prowess between the goal posts. Already there was talk of contracts, and of buying a home for his parents, who had poured all their savings into the dream that their son might be the next great Brazilian soccer export — the next Ronaldo, Ronaldinho or Neymar.
Now, his father stood in a daze of grief outside a Rio office building, surrounded by lawyers. Just days earlier, Christian had burned to death ina fireat the youth academy of one of South America’s most famous soccer clubs, Flamengo. He was one of 10 players killed.
The deaths lifted the veil over international soccer’s biggest production line, and raised sweeping questions about a brutal apparatus that chews up untold numbers of young Brazilian boys for every star it mints.
But for the moment, as lawyers sparred over how much money families of the players killed in the blaze should get, there was just one simple question: What was Christian worth?
“Dreams.”
The word hung in the air as Rafael Stival let out a sigh.
Mr. Stival’s for-profit talent scouting operation had posted a note on Facebook mourning three of its graduates who had died in the fire at Flamengo. Since then, the messages had been pouring in.
They were not condolences. The Facebook post had inadvertently acted as an advertisement — a signal to ambitious parents that Mr. Stival’s organization could get their boys into not just any club, but the great Flamengo. They wanted Mr. Stival to give their boys a chance.
The soccer world in Brazil is populated by a variety of actors, some drawn by glory, but almost all attracted by the chance of breaking out of poverty, maybe even striking it rich.
There are the boys, of course, and their families. There are the investors and the middlemen like Mr. Stival, who trawl the continent-size country in search of prospects as young as 9. And there are the teams, many in a state of such financial disarray that only the sale of the latest star keeps them afloat.
The profits from investing wisely, and early, in even a single player can run into the tens of millions of dollars.
To many in the game, the industry has grown out of control. It has morphed from a system intended to develop promising players into an international market whose value is $7 billion a year, according to soccer’s global governing body, FIFA. In this speculative environment, talented young athletes — some of them children — are bought and sold like any other raw material. In Brazil, the best ones are even referred to that way: as “gems.”
No one knows for sure how many boys are in Brazil’s youth soccer system.
There are no official figures. Estimates range from 12,000 to 15,000, but that is hard to corroborate. The Brazilian soccer federation makes no effort to track players until they turn 16 and become professionals.
But one thing is known: On the night of the Flamengo fire, Feb. 8, more than two dozen boys — most from poor families, and all hoping to achieve a dream — were asleep in a club dormitory.
In a country obsessed with soccer, Flamengo prides itself on being the most popular team, with wealth that is the envy of rivals across South America. But that adoration and power, it appears, may have allowed Flamengo to escape for years any real censure for the treatment of boys in its care.
In 2015, Rio state prosecutors sued Flamengo over the conditions at its training center. The prosecutors cited child-protection failures, declaring the conditions to be “even worse than those currently offered to juvenile delinquents.”
City officials issued an order closing the facility in 2017, but never carried it out, limiting their sanctions to dozens of fines.
In recent years, Flamengo spent millions to upgrade its youth academy. Last year, club officials boasted that the new facilities would be the best in Brazil.
But the dormitory holding 26 sleeping boys on the night of the fire was a makeshift structure, consisting of six steel containers fused together. It had never been inspected, according to local authorities.
Interviews with survivors of the fire and officials who investigated it suggest that a series of failures may have contributed to the boys’ deaths:
— Federal regulations require at least one caretaker for every 10 boys, but there was no adult present at the time of the fire.
— Survivors said the only exit from the dorm was at its far end. Some of the boys may have been in beds farther away from the exit than the 33-feet limit required by the regulations.
— The rooms had sliding doors, another violation because they can jam.
— And while each room had a window, the openings were covered with grates.
One boy who was in Christian’s room told investigators their door had stuck when he tried to get out. The boy managed to slide through the window grates. But Christian, a strapping 6-foot-3 goalkeeper, could not. When rescuers got to him, his body was so badly charred he could be identified only through dental records.
Flamengo officials did not respond to interview requests. But in February, its president, Rodolfo Landim, denied knowing about any irregularities when he spoke at a news conference after the fire.
“Our goal is to solve this problem as quickly as possible,” he said.
Soccer is hardly the only industry to attract Brazil’s desperate.
Sergio Rangel, a journalist who has covered the sport for three decades, says the youth-training system reminds him of the giant gold mine inSerra Pelada. The horrific conditions there were immortalized by the photographer Sebastião Salgado in the 1980s.
Desperately poor men from all over the country swarmed the mine’s open pit, turning over rocks in the hope of finding the nugget that would change their lives.
Soccer has also been a fool’s gold of sorts for many families. Some of them move hundreds, even thousands of miles to enroll their sons in training programs that will sort, scrutinize and, more often than not, reject their child as worthless.
“Pick one up, turn it over, and throw it away if it’s no good,” Mr. Rangel said.
The young men are not just disposable. To those who run the industry, they are often indistinguishable.
That much was clear at a memorial for the 10 players who died at Flamengo. Midway through the service, a team official rushed to cover a large montage of photos of the boys: someone had realized that a player who survived had been mistakenly included.
The streets of Xerém, about 50 kilometers outside Rio, teem with boys of various ages in red, green and white jerseys — the colors of the Fluminense soccer club.
Until the team built its training complex there, Xerém was little more than a swamp, locals say. But now, despite the humid heat that tops 100 degrees Fahrenheit, it is home to players and families whose lives revolve around the club.
Among them earlier this year was an 11-year-old nicknamed Maradoninha, for his resemblance to the former Argentine great Diego Maradona. Even in this hotly competitive town, Maradoninha was attracting attention.
Two years ago, a talent scout from Fluminense saw the boy, whose real name is Leandro Gomes Feitosa, play in a local tournament and approached his family. The boy was only 9, and Brazilian law does not allow soccer clubs to house children under 14. But if the family could get to Rio, the scout said, Fluminense would train him.
A group of local businessmen put up the money — for a cut of future proceeds — and the family moved more than 1,200 miles, from the town of Palmas to Xerém, to pursue the dream.
Almost all the families living in their community of 26 rowhouses have a similar story, Maradoninha’s father, Evandro Feitosa, said.
Maradoninha may not be old enough for high school, but he knows his family’s future is tied to his skills with a soccer ball. “God willing,” he said, “I’ll become a big player to help my family in Palmas, my family here and those in need.”
The chances of making it are slim. Fewer than 5 percent of the soccer prospects in Brazilwill ever make it as professionals, by most estimates. Fewer still will earn a decent wage in the game. A study published by the Brazilian soccer federation in 2016 found that 82 percent of soccer players in the country earned less than 1,000 reais ($265) each month.
And for Maradoninha and his family, the odds recently got even slimmer: Fluminense released him.
Whatever the odds, whatever the hardship, there are enough soccer success stories to feed the hopes of young boys and families who have little else to aspire to.
There is Neymar, so successful he is more international brand than player. He is the product of a humble neighborhood on the outskirts of São Paulo. There are Rivaldo, Ronaldo and Romário, three former Brazilian World Cup winners, all awarded the title of best player in the world in their time by FIFA.
And most recently, there is Vinicius Junior, a flashy forward who rose out of Flamengo’s youth ranks. He once trained on the same fields as the 10 boys killed in the fire, and then he began living the dream: in 2017, when he was 16, Spain’s Real Madrid agreed to pay 45 million euros (just over $50 million) for his rights after he played just 11 minutes in his debut game.
All of those players, and hundreds more, have emerged from the Brazil’s soccer mill to ply their trade on the world’s biggest stages.
In his early days in the sport, Christian’s parents used all they had — and borrowed from friends and neighbors — to finance his soccer dream.
He seemed to be getting closer to his own version of the soccer success story. On March 5, the day he turned 16, he was expected to sign his first professional contract at Flamengo. His dream, years in the making, was in reach.
He died four weeks before that birthday.
Days after his death, his father, Cristiano Esmério, was standing outside an office tower in downtown Rio where public defenders were meeting with officials from Flamengo. He was with a group of lawyers. One turned to him.
When it came to compensation, the lawyer said, it would be unfair if Christian's family was treated the same as the others. After all, he said, some of the dead boys had been recent arrivals to the club. But Christian was different: He had been called up to one of Brazil’s youth national teams. Clearly he was worth more than the rest.
Esmério nodded silently. He and his son had discussed money, too.
“Dad, let’s look for a house,” he recalls Christian saying when he got word that he was closing in on a professional contract. “My first paycheck, I want to pay for a house for my mom, so she doesn’t have to suffer because she doesn’t have water or electricity.”
A week before he died, the boy posted a tribute to his family on Facebook. Above two pictures of father and son taken a decade apart, he made a promise:
“All the sacrifice will be compensated, my old man.”
Supported by
ByIliana Magra
LONDON — The authorities announced on Thursday that they had ended the search for the Argentine soccer player Emiliano Sala and his pilot after their aircraft vanished over the English Channel on Monday.
“We reviewed all the information available to us, as well as knowing what emergency equipment was on board, and have taken the difficult decision to end the search,” David Barker, the harbormaster captain of the island of Guernsey, a self-governing British dependency off the coast of France, said in a statement posted by the police onTwitter.
The search, which involved three planes, five helicopters, two lifeboats and the assistance of passing ships and fishing boats, covered an approximately 1,700-square-mile area, according to Mr. Barker.
The police examined mobile phone data and satellite imagery, but no trace of the aircraft, Mr. Sala or the pilot, David Ibbotson, could be found.
“The chances of survival at this stage are extremely remote,” Mr. Barker said in his statement.
After the authorities’ announcement, Romina Sala, Mr. Sala’s sister, held anews conferencein Cardiff and asked the authorities not to call off the search.
“Please, please, please don’t stop the search,” Ms. Sala said in Spanish, fighting back tears.
She said she knew in her heart that Mr. Sala was still alive somewhere in the Channel.
On Monday night, when his plane disappeared, Mr. Sala sent anaudio messageto his family from the plane, in which he said, “I’m so afraid” and warned that the aircraft “seems like it’s falling to pieces.”
“If, in an hour and a half, you have no news from me,” he said, “I don’t know if they are going to send someone to look for me, because they are not going to find me.”
Mr. Ibbotson, whose identity was confirmed by the Humberside Police on Wednesday, used the Facebook check-in tool at the Nantes airport on Saturday afternoon. According toreportsin the British news media, he had joked in Facebook comments that he was a “bit rusty with the ils,” referring to the Instrument Landing System.
The Piper Malibu plane — a single-engine, propeller-driven aircraft — departed Nantes, a city in western France, at 8:15 p.m. local time on Monday, and was headed for Cardiff, the capital of Wales.
Mr. Sala, a 28-year-old forward from Argentina, had left his homeland for Europe at the age of 16. He became a star playing for Nantes in the top French league, and was recently sold to Cardiff City. He was scheduled to join that team on Tuesday.
By 8:23 p.m. Monday in Britain, his plane had disappeared from air traffic control radar about 15 miles north of Guernsey.
Mehmet Dalman, the chairman of Cardiff City, said on Wednesday that there were no plans to reschedule the team’s coming Premier League match, which is set to take place on Tuesday, according to theBBC.
“I would be very surprised if there’s any change to the schedule,” Mr. Dalman said.
The owner of Cardiff City, Tan Sri Vincent Tan, thanked those involved in the search operationin a statement on Thursday.
“Monday evening’s news shook everyone at Cardiff City F.C. to the core,” he said. “We were looking forward to providing Emiliano with the next step in his life and career.”
He added that the team continued to pray for Mr. Sala and Mr. Ibbotson.
The search for the aircraft, Mr. Sala and Mr. Ibbotson might have been called off, but the disappearance remained an open case, according to Mr. Barker, the harbormaster captain.
“We will be broadcasting to all vessels and aircraft in the area to keep a look out for any trace of the aircraft,” he said in the statement. “This will continue indefinitely.”
Palko Karasz contributed reporting.


Supported by
ByReuters
LONDON — England football manager Gareth Southgate received the OBE award at Buckingham Palace on Thursday after steering the national team to the World Cup semi-finals in Russia last Summer.
Southgate, 48, dressed in his trademark waistcoat, was presented the award for services to football by Prince Charles after he was included in Queen Elizabeth's 2019 New Year's honours list.
"It's very special," he told Sky Sports TV after the ceremony. "It's a privilege to be the English manager and to receive an award from the royal family - as a proud royal fan, that was very special. It's a moment that will live with me for ever."
Last month, team captain Harry Kane received the MBE award. He was top scorer with six goals in Russia but the team was knocked out after a 2-1 loss to Croatia in the semi-finals.
Southgate's OBE came as England climbed one place to fourth in FIFA's latest world rankings after Euro 2020 qualifying victories over the Czech Republic and Montenegro.
(Reporting by Rachel Cordery; editing by Stephen Addison)
Supported by
ByReuters
Alex Morgan scored her 100th international goal and substitute Mallory Pugh scored twice when the U.S. Women's National Team rallied to defeat Australia 5-3 in a friendly at Dick's Sporting Goods Park in Commerce City, Colo., on Thursday.
Megan Rapinoe broke a 2-2 tie in the 61st minute with a strike from 22 yards out for her 44th goal. Pugh, from Highland Ranch, Colo., replaced Rapinoe and her first touch extended the lead to 4-2 in the 67th minute with Emily Sonnett earning her second assist.
Samantha Kerr's header pulled Australia to a 4-3 deficit in the 81st minute but Pugh chipped in the insurance goal in the fifth minute of stoppage time.
Morgan opened the scoring in the 14th minute to become the 17th woman to reach the century mark. She is tied for sixth on the all-time U.S. list with Tiffeny Milbrett and has 27 goals in her past 32 matches.
She has scored in 70 of her 159 games, with the U.S. going 60-0-10.
Morgan controlled an overhead ball by bodying defender Clare Polkinghorne. She dribbled the left flank toward the top of the penalty area before making a cutback on defender Alanna Kennedy to create space for the shot from 16 yards that went into the far netting.
Lisa De Vanna made it 1-1 in the 29th minute from the left side following a layoff by Caitlin Foord.
The U.S responded but couldn't break the deadlock. Ellie Carpenter cleared a shot by Rapinoe in the 32nd minute; goalkeeper Lydia Williams denied Colorado native Lindsey Horan in the 34th and Rose Lavelle a minute later.
Foord gave Australia a 2-1 lead in the 47th minute, but the U.S. got the equalizer six minutes later with Tobin Heath's header.
The U.S. has three more friendlies before the start of the 2019 Women's World Cup in France in June, beginning with Belgium on Sunday at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles.
--Field Level Media
Supported by
ByReuters
AMSTERDAM — The participation of key Ajax Amsterdam midfielder Frenkie de Jong in Tuesday's Champions League clash against Juventus is unclear after he went off after just 22 minutes of the Dutch league game against Excelsior Rotterdam on Saturday.
Coach Erik ten Hag said it was too early to say whether De Jong would miss the quarter-final second leg in Turin, where Ajax will be on the backfoot after a 1-1 draw in last Wednesday’s first leg.
De Jong, who moves to Barcelona at the end of the season, had an impressive showing in last week’s clash in Amsterdam.
He was taken off after just 22 minutes of Ajax’s 6-2 win over Excelsior clutching at his hamstring.
"He felt something wrong with his hamstring and so we took him off as a precaution," Ten Hag told reporters afterwards. "We were already 1-0 up so there was no point taking any risks."
De Jong had also been injured the match before the first leg but played a full 90 minutes against Juventus last Wednesday.
Saturday’s victory for Ajax put them three points clear of PSV Eindhoven at the top of the standings, although PSV play at home on Sunday against struggling De Graafschap.
(Reporting By Nick Said; Editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
Supported by
ByReuters
LOS ANGELES — The United States women's national team pumped in four first half goals en route to a 6-0 romp against Belgium in a one-sided friendly as the reigning World Cup champions continue to build momentum ahead of their title defense in France in June.
Carli Lloyd opened their account with a leaping header off a long pass from Tierna Davidson that found the bottom corner of the goal in the 14th minute.
Five minutes later, the veteran midfielder unleashed another header to a nearly identical spot in the net to send the nearly 21,000 fans at the Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles into a frenzy on a warm Southern California night.
"I know who I am. I know what I'm capable of," Lloyd, who was making her first start this year, told reporters after the match.
Forward Lindsey Horan nodded in a goal off a corner kick past diving Belgian goalkeeper Nicky Evrard in the 26th minute and midfielder Samantha Mewis effectively put the game out of Belgium's reach with a header to put the hosts 4-0 ahead.
Forward Alex Morgan came on as a substitute to start the second half and scored two minutes later when she broke free of her defender, took a pass from Lloyd, and chipped a shot over Evrard's head for her 101st career goal.
Forward Jessica McDonald completed the rout with a header off a set-piece move in the 90th minute as the team improved to 4-1-2 in 2019.
The match was the last for the U.S. before the team selects its World Cup roster, which will look to bring the team home its fourth title.
(Reporting by Rory Carroll; Editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
Supported by
ByPalko Karasz
A small village in Argentina on Saturday bid farewell to a favorite son, the soccer striker Emiliano Sala, who died along with his pilot last month when his small plane crashed in the English Channel.
Friends, family and supporters gathered early Saturday in the village of Progreso, in the country’s northeast, for a wake at Mr. Sala’s soccer boyhood club, San Martín de Progreso, where his body lay in state. A religious ceremony was held inthe afternoon, and he was to be cremated, reports said.
Outside the club, a banner read, “Emi, you will never walk alone.”
Mr. Sala’s body arrived in the village on Friday, a little more than a week after his remains were found in the wreckage of the plane that went down shortly after takeoff from Nantes, France, for Cardiff, Wales.
“We are waiting for you, Emi,” the San Martín clubposted on Facebookahead of the body’s arrival.
The club’s president, Daniel Ribero told Agence France-Presse, “He represented a lot for us. We’re a small village and Emi was a celebrity, the only player to turn professional.”
Mr. Sala, 28, started off as a youth player in his native Argentina and began his international career in France in 2010. He recently transferred to the English Premier League club Cardiff City from Nantes in the French league. The Cardiff club signed him for£15 million($19 million) to add to its striking power.
Representatives of both clubs attended the funeral service,the BBC reportedand FC Nantes and fanspaid tributeto Mr. Sala on Twitter.
On Thursday, as two of his former French teams — SN Caen and FC Nantes — faced each other at Caen on France’s west coast, signs paying tribute to the striker lined the pitch and players and fans joined in applause before the match began.
Mr. Sala was flying to Cardiff with a pilot, David Ibbotson, on Jan. 21, when their single-engine, propeller-driven Piper Malibu vanished. An initial search for survivors was called off, but after pleas from Mr. Sala's family and a funding drive that raised more than 371,000 euros, about $424,000 in donations, the search resumed.
Recovery crewssent by the British Air Accidents Investigation Branch found the wreckage of the plane and recovered Mr. Sala’s body.
An inquest into the crash has been adjourned until November, when police and air investigators will release more details about the accident.
The pilot is still missing, and Mr. Ibbotson’s family were seeking donations to help find and recover his body.
“We know that he’s dead; we do know that, but we just want him home,” Nora Ibbotson, the pilot’s wife, told a morning television show on the British network ITV on Monday. With the help of famous soccer players and fans, the fund-raiser was close to hitting its target of 400,000 pounds, around $515,000, according to itsGoFundMe page.
Although the wreckage of the Piper Malibu was not raised from the ocean bed, British investigatorssaidunderwater footage of the aircraft would help their work. The British Air Accidents Investigation Branch said it would publish early findings in the coming week.



Supported by
ByReuters
(Reuters) - Forward Alex Morgan reached a personal milestone with her 100th international goal as the United States beat Australia 5-3 in a friendly in Colorado on Thursday.
In opening the scoring in the 15th minute with a superb solo run capped by a precise finish, Morgan became the seventh American woman -- 17th from any country -- to reach the century mark.
It was far from smooth sailing for the reigning World Cup champions, who fell behind Australia early in the second half in front of a sellout crowd in suburban Denver.
The home team, however, scored three times in 14 minutes to regain the lead for good in an entertaining encounter between two of the favorites heading into World Cup in France in June.
Local favorite Mallory Pugh made it 4-2 by scoring less than a minute after coming on, before adding a second with a deft dink over the keeper in the final minute of stoppage time to seal the result.
Earlier, Australia equalized on the half hour when pacy veteran winger Lisa De Vanna fired home.
Caitlin Foord gave Australia the lead early in the second half, before Tobin Heath and Megan Rapinoe put the U.S. ahead again.
Samantha Kerr scored with a thumping header in the 82nd minute to give Australia some hope, but the visitors could not find an equalizer.
"We can't let that many goals in ... but they're a great attacking team so you've got to give them credit," said veteran Rapinoe after her 150th appearance for the U.S.
The Americans continue their World Cup preparation with another friendly against Belgium in California on Sunday.
(Reporting by Andrew Both in Cary, North Carolina; editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
Supported by
ByTariq Panja
Soccer officials from one of FIFA’s largest confederations have gathered this week in Malaysia’s capital, Kuala Lumpur, to elect a president. The balloting will take place at the end of a long day of speeches, motions and reports, but at least the setting — the luxurious Shangri-La Hotel — promises to be comfortable.
Before the vote is held, the incumbent, Sheikh Salman bin Ebrahim al-Khalifa of Bahrain, will have the opportunity to make a speech outlining his qualifications. His opponent will not.
That is because, as usual, there is no opponent.
For the third time in less than a year — the fourth will come in June — one of soccer’s largest and most powerful governing bodies will rubber-stamp the election of its leader ina one-candidate election. South America’s governing body, Conmebol, went first last May, when it granted President Alejandro Domínguez an unopposed second term, and Europe’s governing body, UEFA, followed suit in February byre-electing Aleksandr Ceferin. In June, FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, will retain his post in yet another walkover.
“There has always seemed to be a great deal of fear around challenging the incumbent and because of the potential for retribution built into the system,” said Alexandra Wrage, president of the corporate governance adviser Trace International. For that reason, she said, regular uncontested elections are “not all that surprising.”
Wrage previously advised FIFA on corporate governance reforms before quitting in 2013. She has since become one of the organization’s most vocal critics.
In Asia, Sheikh Salman had been challenged — briefly — by opponents from the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, two countries at the center of a broad political dispute that has spilled into soccer ina varietyofways, but both dropped out of the race late last month after a series of behind-the-scenes meetings in the Gulf.
Sheikh Salman’s presidency has been marred by controversy since he was elected in 2013 to replace Mohamed Bin Hammam, a wealthy Qatari businessman who was banned for life in the wake of a corruption investigation. Hisconnections to Bahrain’s royal family, for example, have led to Sheikh Salman’s recusing himself from a role in some of the Asian Football Confederation’s most sensitive decisions, such as in the highly publicized case of Hakeem al-Araibi, a soccer player who fled to Australia after claiming he had been tortured by the Bahraini government during pro-democracy demonstrations there in 2011.
Salman also did not take part in discussions over how to deal with the pirating of the A.F.C.’s Qatari broadcast partner’s programing by an illegal operation based in Saudi Arabia. Bahrain is among the countries backing the Saudi-led blockade of Qatar.
The re-election of incumbents, routinely without opposition, is common in soccer, where the power structures remain closely held despite a sprawling investigation in 2015 by the United States Department of Justice that exposed corruption schemes at the highest levels of the sport dating back decades.
The American case largely avoided implicating officials in Asia, but by then regional soccer leaders had already faced a reckoning after a series of internal investigations into the conduct of Sheikh Salman’s predecessor, Bin Hammam, and his leadership team. Those reports, including one by the former F.B.I. chief Louis Freeh, exposed a series of unexplained payments made to soccer officials throughout Asia and Africa.
The reports, three in total, which have been reviewed by The New York Times, exposed a series of payments made on behalf of Bin Hammam by the A.F.C.’s longtime media partner, World Sports Group, and specifically its regional head, the Lebanese businessman Pierre Kakhia. The payments included legal fees for an official from Tahiti who was facing an ethics ban, and money to a consulting firm hired to promote Bin Hammam’s bid for the FIFA presidency.
Despite his links to Bin Hammam, Kakhia remains a trusted consultant to the A.F.C., currently responsible for handling millions of dollars worth of sponsorship contracts, even though he last worked for W.S.G.’s parent company in 2016.
The A.F.C. declined to say why it had retained the services of Kakhia.
As well as Sheikh Salman’s re-election, delegates at the meeting in Kuala Lumpur will pick candidates for coveted places on global soccer’s ruling body, the FIFA Council. That contest, featuring eight candidates vying for six places, has proved to be contentious.
South Korean officials have complained to the A.F.C. over perceived double standards in ethics rules after their country was barred from inviting soccer officials to Seoul to attend an exhibition game last month, a prohibition that was not extended to Qatar, which wrote to officials inviting them on an all-expenses paid trip to attend two matches there. Both South Korea and Qatar have candidates in the election, as does the Philippines, whose candidate, the South Koreans contend, has been using a private jet owned by a Qatari official to travel across the region during his campaign.
“We urgently request you to review this matter in relation to any violation against the relevant regulations in force,” the Korean soccer federation president, Chong Mong-gyu, wrote in a letter to the A.F.C. The A.F.C., which confirmed it had received the South Koreans’ complaint, declined to say why it had not issued the same warning to Qatar.
Sheikh Salman’s challengers dropped out of the presidential race after a series of decisions by the A.F.C., including the surprising move to break an exclusive television contract with the A.F.C.’s broadcast partner, the Qatari broadcaster BeIN Sports, in order to allow games to be broadcast in Saudi Arabia, where games have been broadcast illegally for almost two years. BeIN said it planned to sue the A.F.C. over the decision.
Until that decision, Saudi Arabia had been supporting an Emirati candidate, Mohammad Khalfan al-Rumaithi. Rumaithi withdrew his candidacy shortly after the television agreement was struck. The third candidate, Saoud al-Mohannadi of Qatar, soon followed suit.




Supported by
Screenland
ByJody Rosen
There is no shortage of Lionel Messi content on the World Wide Web. The 31-year-old soccer superstar ranks high in surveys of top Google searches, one of just a few human beings to earn a spot among such keyword perennials as “Facebook,” “weather” and “free porn.” In a 2015 tally of the most Googled person in each nation on earth, Messi tied Kim Kardashian for the most No. 1s, with a global reach that extended from his native Argentina to Haiti, Turkmenistan, Senegal and 22 other countries.
Messi is also one of the world’s pre-eminent viral video stars. Countless clips document “Messi magic,” a playing style of almost unseemly brilliance. On social media, users share videos of Messi’s slipping passes through improbably tight spaces, corkscrewing shots past sprawling goalkeepers, darting around defenders like a jack rabbit navigating a gantlet of sloths. Type “Messi” into a YouTube search field, and you will find hundreds of highlight compilations with bombastic titles: “Lionel Messi sees things we don’t even consider,” “Lionel Messi: — A God Amongst Men,” “Lionel Messi: Extraterrestrial.”
Hudson is onto something with this talk of algebra and poetry. Messi’s greatness lies in his mind as much as his body. Watching replays of the goal, you marvel above all at the audacity of Messi’s idea. Achip? From that distance, at that angle, in that frenzied moment of open-field play? It’s nuts — a fool’s fantasy that blossoms, with every slow-motion replay, into wondrous fact. Messi saw something we didn’t even consider.
That viral clip is a testament to Messi’s supernatural talent. It’s also a reminder that online video is changing the way we consume and conceptualize sports. Decades ago, the culture of “highlights” was already transforming America’s pastimes. The decline of slow-paced baseball, the ascendancy of the razzle-dazzle N.B.A., the rule changes that have brought an offensive explosion in the N.F.L. — these developments were fueled in no small part by the rise of ESPN’s SportsCenter and the primacy of video clips. But in the old days, those highlight packages were appointment viewing, available only on nightly broadcasts. Today highlights spread across the web in seconds, mutating into memes and turning star athletes into visual brands. You don’t have to be a purist to wonder how this media ecosystem is affecting our tolerance for the natural rhythms and longueurs of sports, those lengthy stretches of “lowlight” play that are only occasionally punctuated by thrills.
Soccer is a subtle game; in general, goals are hard to come by. It would seem to be the major sport most antithetical to highlight culture. (For all those moments of Messi magic, the essence of his greatness may lie in untelegenic maneuverings off the ball, the cagey movements that put him into positions where he can erupt.) But viral video is altering our view of soccer’s history. Today’s fans compare clips while endlessly debating the “greatest of all time” status of Messi and his chief rival, the Portuguese striker Cristiano Ronaldo. The GOATs of previous eras — like Pelé, Johan Cruyff and Diego Maradona — recede into the background: They had the misfortune to play in a time before a footballer’s every exploit was captured on video. If a player’s “receipts” aren’t on YouTube, he’s liable to lose to his toehold in the historiography.
Yet for the 21st-century soccer fan, online video is a godsend — the only conceivable way to keep up with the ultimate global sport. With a mobile phone and a well-curated social media feed, it is now possible to follow great matches on five different continents, nearly every day, in real time.
As for Messi: I know few more pleasurable ways to kill a couple of hours than by squinting at a liquid-crystal screen, bugging out to the likes of “Lionel Messi Humiliating Players Two or More Times in the Same Play.” Messi is the quintessential internet-age soccer star — he scored his first goal for Barcelona in 2005, the year YouTube went online — but his persona is a throwback to an earlier period. He is a trickster and a funnyman, like an old-time silent-movie star. He’s small and scrappy, standing just 5-foot-7, the Charlie Chaplin to suave Ronaldo’s Rudolph Valentino. Many of his greatest moments play out like slapstick farce, leaving pratfalling defenders littered across the pitch.
At their best, sports like soccer are the digital age’s most reliable suppliers of an old-fashioned brand of entertainment, the special-effects-free kind, in which human beings use only their sinews and synapses to deliver thrills and spills, action and comedy. Messi’s chip in the Betis match was a comedic set piece in its own right. On YouTube, you can find video montages of the play’s aftermath: Messi and his teammates celebrating and cracking up, the goalie López mugging like an exasperated vaudeville straight man, play-by-play announcers dissolving in peals of laughter. The goal is a cosmic joke if there ever was one. A small man swings his left leg; a ball loops skyward; common sense and natural laws are suspended. You know the punch line: The ball will fall back to earth, landing — plop — in the back of the net. But no matter how many times you watch it, the gag still kills.
Jody Rosen is a contributing writer for the magazine and the author of the forthcoming book “Two Wheels Good: The Bicycle on Planet Earth and Elsewhere.”
Sign up forour newsletterto get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.

International video coverage from The New York Times.












Paul Manafort’s Trail of Scandals
My Dead Dad’s Porno Tapes
Ten Meter Tower
Between Sound and Silence
Coal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”
House Tour | Cary Leibowitz
Sanctuary City Hotline
2011: Arab Spring
‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your Questions
Calving Season
Supported by
in her words
In her new book, “Wolfpack,” the retired soccer superstar applies lessons of failure and triumph learned on the field to empower women.
ByMaya Salam
You’re reading In Her Words, where women rule the headlines.Sign uphere to get it delivered to your inbox. Let me know what you think atdearmaya@nytimes.com.
“So many of us can relate to playing by rules that were never set up for us to win.”
—Abby Wambach, two-time Olympic gold medalist and World Cup champion
Abby Wambach has made a career out of pursuing goals. She’s scored 184 of them after all, the most by any soccer player, male or female, in international soccer history. But now, a few years into her retirement, Wambach, who led the United States women’s team to a World Cup championship in 2015, is focused on a new kind of goal: motivating women to become leaders.
“There has never been a more important, urgent time than right now for women to begin to fully lead our own lives,” she told me this week.
In her new book, “Wolfpack,” Wambach, 38, shares lessons she learned from decades of training, failure and triumph on the field. It is based on thecommencement speechshe gave at Barnard College in New York last year that quickly went viral. “If I could go back and tell my younger self one thing, it would be this: ‘Abby, you were never Little Red Riding Hood; you were always the wolf,’” she told graduates.
[FROM THE ARCHIVES:Abby Wambach, Retired U.S. Soccer Star, Reflects on Her Addiction]
Her book’s release comes a month after the United States women’s team filed agender discrimination lawsuitagainst the United States Soccer Federation. While Wambach is not part of the suit, she’s been outspoken on the subject. “This isn’t just a female athlete’s story; this is every single woman’s story on planet Earth,”she said in September. “Women lose our very lives because of this pay gap inequity, and in order to get it back we have to fight.”
In “Wolfpack,” Wambach offers eight new rules to help women succeed professionally and personally.And she hopes her ideas trigger a domino effect. “When one person stands up and demands the ball, the job, the promotion, the paycheck, the microphone, that one gives others permission to do the same,” she said.
Here are the four of her “new rules,” and the norms she hopes they’ll upend.
______
“Champion each other.”
Old Rule: Be against each other.
New Rule: Be FOR each other.
“Power and success and joy are not pies,” Wambach writes. “A bigger slice for one woman doesn’t mean a smaller slice for another.”
______
“Be gratefulandambitious.”
Old Rule: Be grateful for what you have.
New Rule: Be grateful for what you have AND demand what you deserve.
“I was so grateful for a paycheck, so grateful to represent my country, so grateful to be the token woman at the table, so grateful to receive any respect at all that I was afraid to use my voice to demand more,” Wambach writes. “Our gratitude is how power uses the tokenism of a few women to keep the rest of us in line.”
______
“Make failure your fuel.”
Old Rule: Failure means you’re out of the game.
New Rule: Failure means you’re finally IN the game.
“Imperfect men have been empowered and permitted to run the world since the beginning of time,” Wambach writes. “It’s time for imperfect women to grant themselves permission to join them.”
______
“Lead from the bench.”
Old Rule: Wait for permission to lead.
New Rule: Lead now — from wherever you are.
“The picture of leadership is not just a man at the head of a table,” Wambach writes. “It’s also every woman who is allowing her own voice to guide her life and the lives of those she cares about.”
Sign up here to get In Her Words delivered to your inbox!
______
Here are five articles from The Times you might have missed.
“Someone is always trying to kill you.”From our Opinion pages: Women in Honduras are being killed in newly sadistic ways, sending people running for the border. [Read the story]
“As a feminist or L.G.B.T., you will tend to be more targeted.”Wikipedia isn’t officially a social network, but the harassment can get ugly. [Read the story]
“What’s left of the hospital here is grass and horses.”With labor and delivery rooms closed after Hurricane Maria, residents of Vieques, an island off Puerto Rico, must take a ferry to give birth. [Read the story]
“What is happening at Cosmo right now is the new way forward.”Jessica Pels, Cosmopolitan’s new editor, is trying to save the magazine from the jaws of Instagram. [Read the story]
“I started photographing at a time when it was almost impossible to find authentic images of lesbians.”Joan E. Biren helped build a movement for their liberation. [Read the story]
______
What would happen if women gained the same physical strength as men? That was the question posed in an1870 articlein The New York Times titled “Muscular Women” (!).
The answer, according to the opponents of equal rights at the time, would be a disruption of the natural order of things, meaning women would exert their strength to take down men physically and mentally.
Should women continue to get fit, they “must expect no favorite and no mercy,” according to the article, because chivalry works only if women are weaker.
“If this sort of thing goes on,” the article said, “it’s hard to say what will become of the men.”
Sign up hereto get future installments of In Her Words delivered to your inbox.
Read past articles here.
Supported by
ByTariq Panja
LONDON — The group entrusted with conducting the surprisingly difficult search for a candidate to run English soccer’s Premier League has received another rejection from an executive for whom the opportunity would appear to have been a step up.
Earlier this year, the league approached Christian Seifert, chief executive of Germany’s Bundesliga, to see if he would like to step into the shoes of Richard Scudamore, the towering figure under whose leadership England’s top flight managed to become by far the world’s most popular soccer league, not to mention its richest.
Seifert briefly thought about the idea before dismissing it, according to people with knowledge of his thinking. He is focused on managing the next set of broadcast rights sales as Germany’s league competes with Spain’s La Liga in the battle for second place behind the Premier League, said the people, who were not authorized to speak about it publicly.
A spokeswoman for the Bundesliga and Seifert declined to comment. A Premier League spokesman said the league did not comment on names linked to the role.
The search for Scudamore’s replacement has shined a harsh light on the search team, led by Chelsea’s chairman, Bruce Buck, entrusted to find the former advertising executive’s replacement. Last year, the group announced the appointment of Susanna Dinnage, a senior executive at Discovery Communications, before she abruptly changed her mind in late December. That left the league scrambling for a second option. A raft of names have since been linked to the post, but the search continues without any sign of an imminent appointment.
At a league board meeting, which was attended by a mix of owners and executives from the Premier League’s 20 teams, those in attendance were told that the search group, which has hired the U.K. headhunting firm Spencer Stuart to help with the process, has interviewed a final group of six candidates who will be shortlisted to three by the end of the month.
Scudamore’s replacement will find an increasingly busy inbox, as well as a challenging media climate, as the league attempts to at least keep pace with the multibillion-dollar deals that have fueled its rise. The Premier League recently joined counterparts across Europe in voicing concerns about plans by some of the continent’s top clubs to restructure the elite Champions League, changes that risk diminishing the value and relevance of domestic soccer.
The new boss must also manage tension between the league’s biggest clubs — a group of six that includes Manchester United, Arsenal and Liverpool, who have owners from the United States and who are constantly fighting for a larger slice of income at the expense of the rest of the competition. He or she will also be faced with as yet unknown challenges created by the United Kingdom’s decision to leave the European Union.
But even without a leader, the Premier League continues to provide a compelling product for its worldwide fan base, with this season’s title race set to go to the wire as Manchester City and Liverpool match each other point for point into the final games, while the next four teams are involved in an equally tight fight for the final two qualification places for next season’s Champions League.
The delay, though, has been frustrating for some of the league’s staff and companies that do business with it. They had grown used to Scudamore’s decisive management style. For instance, the Premier League recently scrapped a multimillion-dollar agreement with Facebook to broadcast games in four Asian countries after failing to finalize the agreement. An executive involved in the talks, who had completed contracts with Scudamore in the past, said the leadership void did not help the process.



Supported by
ByReuters
BARCELONA — Barcelona closed in on the La Liga title after beating 10-man Atletico Madrid 2-0 in Saturday's top-of-the-table showdown at the Nou Camp as late strikes by Luis Suarez and Lionel Messi gave the Catalans an 11-point lead at the top of the table.
Atletico began brightly but their gameplan went out of the window when Diego Costa was shown a straight red card in the 28th minute for a verbal tirade at referee Jesus Gil Manzano.
Atletico produced a gutsy second-half display, expertly shackling Barca, but the Catalans finally found a way past the visitors' outstanding goalkeeper Jan Oblak with a superb curling shot from Suarez in the 85th minute.
Moments later Messi sealed victory and quite probably the league title with an irresistibly cool finish into the net and Barca's fans jubilantly chanted "champions", crowing at their surely unassailable lead at the top with seven games remaining.
Atletico midfielder Koke conceded that Barca had wrapped up the title but questioned the decision to send Costa off.
"Barca are practically champions. It was a very strange game, we were doing so well until the red card but all the small details went their way," Koke told reporters.
"Whenever we come here something strange happens, we've had a lot of red cards against Barca and not all of them have been fair. When you have 10 men against one of the best teams in the world it's normal that it's a struggle."
Suarez highlighted his side's character for winning such a difficult game so soon after their gruelling 4-4 draw against Villarreal in midweek.
"This was another game which shows just how hard it is to win the league so we deserve lot more credit for what we're achieving," Suarez said.
"We've now got a very big advantage over Atletico. There are still some games left but we took two steps towards winning the league today."
MAD MOMENT
Atletico realistically needed to win at the Nou Camp for the first time since 2006 to stay in the title race and they played with ambition and intelligence in the opening stages, keeping the ball for long periods and depriving Barca of space.
But they were rocked by Costa's moment of madness which killed their early momentum and left them with little choice but to defend for the remaining hour of the game.
Striker Costa reacted angrily to not being awarded a foul after being tackled by Jordi Alba and gave a long verbal response to the referee, who to his disbelief pulled out a red card.
Costa had to be shepherded off the pitch by Barca's Gerard Pique as he struggled to control his temper while his team mates Diego Godin and Jose Gimenez earned bookings for venting their anger over the decision.
Atletico coped superbly with the setback and numerical disadvantage, controlling the space for the majority of the game.
Messi still carved his way through the middle of the pitch on two occasions, creating openings for Suarez and himself but both South American forwards were thwarted by the titanic presence of Oblak.
Atletico naturally had limited opportunities down the other end but were not far from finding a goal when Antoine Griezmann picked out Rodrigo from a free kick but the midfielder headed over the bar when Gimenez was stood behind him, in a better position.
Diego Simeone's side could not last the distance, however, and as their legs inevitably tired, Barca's attacking quality made the difference.
"We knew what the game would be like, Atletico are very organised and after the red card we tried to attack more but it wasn't easy," Suarez said.
"But we kept going, we showed a great attitude and kept testing their goalkeeper who was the hero of the game."
(Reporting by Richard Martin, editing by Ed Osmond)
Supported by
ByTariq Panja
Two days after fans in the United Arab Emirates threw shoes at rival players during a 4-0 loss in the semifinals to Qatar at the Asian Cup, the country’s soccer federation has taken direct aim at the team itself.
Organizers of the Asian Cup said on Thursday that they would respond to an official complaint lodged by Emirates soccer officials, who charged that two members of the Qatari team were ineligible to play in the region’s biggest tournament.
The players — Almoez Ali, a Sudan-born striker, and Bassam al-Rawi, a defender born in Iraq — are fixtures in Qatar’s lineup. Ali is the tournament’s top scorer, with eight goals in six games, and al-Rawi scored the goal that sent Qatar to the quarterfinals.
The complaint is the latest salvo in a bitter dispute between the Gulf neighbors that goes far beyond soccer. The Emirates is part of a two-year-old, Saudi-led blockade of Qatar, driven by a belief that its neighbor is financing terrorism and growing too close to Iran, Saudi Arabia’s biggest regional rival; Qatar has denied playing any role in supporting terrorist groups.
The dispute has already manifested itself in ways small and large in the tournament, which now represents Qatar’s biggest success on the soccer field.
One consequence of the dispute is that there are no direct flights from Doha to Abu Dhabi, so Qatar’s team had to fly through Oman on its way to the event, and Qatari fans — unable to travel to the Emirates without permission — are largely absent at the team’s matches.
But Qatar, which has never qualified for a World Cup but will host the event in 2022, has been the surprise of the field. It will play Japan in the final on Friday.
But even as Qatar marched through the field, rumors — fueled by a close reading of FIFA nationality rules — swirled about the eligibility of Ali and al-Rawi.
The silence of Qatari officials on the issue has only led to more rumors. A spokesman for the team has not responded to repeated requests for comment, while FIFA, the global governing body for soccer, has said the matter falls under the jurisdiction of the tournament organizer, the Asian Football Confederation.
The A.F.C. had said that it would intervene only an official complaint were filed. That complaint arrived in the aftermath of the Emirates’ humiliating defeat in front of its own fans in Abu Dhabi on Tuesday.
“The Asian Football Confederation has a received a protest from the United Arab Emirates F.A. regarding the eligibility of two Qatar players,” the A.F.C. said in a statement on Thursday. “This protest will now be reviewed in line with the A.F.C. regulations.”
The A.F.C. declined to identify the possible punishment for Qatar. Teams that have previously fielded ineligible players have forfeited games, but the situation has never come up at the final stages of a major international event.
Under soccer’s regulations, players are only eligible for a national team outside of their country of birth if they have lived there for five continuous years after turning 18. Al-Rawi is 21 and Ali is 22. The rules make an exception that permits players to represent a country if a parent or grandparent was born there; many countries, including the United States, regularly take advantage of the exception.
Qatar has been trawling the world for talent for years in preparation for the 2022 World Cup, embarking on perhaps the most extensive talent identification program in history, one that involved the creation of training programs for youngsters from Africa and an academy for the best prospects in Doha.
Officials in the country have said in the past that the program does not require those scouted to pick Qatar over their birth countries. Though born in Sudan, Ali has lived in Qatar since he was a child. Al-Rawi’s father once represented Iraq internationally.
Still, Qatar’s squads at the youth and senior levels have included several expatriate players, and the eligibility was not questioned when Ali and al-Rawi represented the country at previous tournaments sanctioned by FIFA and the A.F.C.
It was not clear why the Emirates, or any of Qatar’s other opponents — including Saudi Arabia, which lost to Qatar, 2-0 — did not raise the issue until after the semifinal.
The victories over the Saudis and the Emirates were greeted by scenes of jubilation in Qatar, where fans draped in the country’s flag took to the streets of Doha to celebrate the victories.
For the hosts, the defeat was particularly painful given the efforts it had made to create a partisan atmosphere inside Abu Dhabi’s Zayed Sports City Stadium. Local organizers distributed thousands of free tickets to what it described as “loyal” fans before the game.
For the A.F.C., the issue also raises another political issue. Its president, Sheikh Salman bin Ibrahim al-Khalifa of Bahrain, is being challenged for his post by candidates from the Emirates and Qatar.
The organization has opened a separate investigation over the shoe- and bottle-throwing incidents that marred the semifinal. That case could lead to sanctions.



Supported by
ByAndrew Das
Don Garber, who in two decades as commissioner has overseen a wave of expansion that has more than doubled the size of Major League Soccer, has signed a five-year contract extension that will keep him in charge of the league through the 2023 season.
The league announced the new contract on Thursday. Garber’s previous deal expired after last season, but he had widely been expected to remain in his post. Garber, 61, also will continue in his role as the chairman of Soccer United Marketing, the league’s powerful — and profitable — marketing arm.
A former N.F.L. executive, Garber was recruited to join M.L.S. by the N.F.L. owners Robert Kraft and Lamar Hunt, who also owned teams in the then-fledgling soccer league.
Garber took over a 12-team M.L.S. in August 1999, and among his first moves was to close the league’s two Florida franchises, in Tampa Bay and Miami. The decision reduced the league’s roster to 10 teams and raised questions about its viability as a national league.
But in the two decades that followed, Garber led the league on a wave of expansion — first two teams in 2005, and then a steady flow of at least one new team a year from 2007 to 2012. That burst of growth included the additions of three teams in Canada, in Toronto, Vancouver and Montreal.
All the while, he tinkered with the league’s roster and salary rules, recruited global stars like David Beckham and persuaded the owners to invest in player development and new stadiums. M.L.S. had one soccer-specific stadium in 1999; by this summer, 20 of its teams will play in facilities they control.
Garber’s tenure has not been trouble-free. Critics point to the league’s centralized control of player contracts and Soccer United Marketing’s influence with U.S. Soccer as hampering the growth of the domestic game, and Garber once openly feuded with the former United States national team coach Jurgen Klinsmann after the coach criticized the league.
But there is little question that Garber’s tenure has transformed the league. The league now has national sponsors and television contracts that bring its games to 170 countries. Twenty-four teams will play in M.L.S. this year, including a new one in Cincinnati, and three more ownership groups have been approved to enter the league by 2021.
One of them, led by Beckham, will bring the league back to the Miami market it once abandoned.



Supported by
ByThe Associated Press
LONDON — Two English second-tier clubs have condemned racist abuse of players following Saturday's games.
Brentford said it "utterly condemns discrimination" after a season-ticket holder was arrested following an allegation of abuse by Derby midfielder Duane Holmes.
The incident happened late in the League Championship match after Holmes was substituted in the 74th minute. The game at Griffin Park in west London ended 3-3.
Derby manager Frank Lampard says "Duane's upset with the situation. It's not what we want to see in life, not just in football."
In a separate case, Wigan reported a racist message sent to defender Nathan Byrne on Twitter to the police and said "we find this behavior abhorrent."
Byrne posted a screenshot on his Twitter account of a message he received following Wigan's 2-2 draw with Bristol City at Ashton Gate.
Anti-racism group Kick It Out says it will be "liaising with the relevant authorities and offering support to clubs and players involved."
___
Supported by
ByThe Associated Press
EDINBURGH, Scotland — A coconut was thrown on the pitch during the Edinburgh derby between Hearts and Hibernian on Saturday.
It was hurled onto the grass from the away end at sixth-place Hearts just after Hibernian winger Daryl Horgan's 28th-minute goal had cancelled out Peter Haring's header three minutes earlier.
Maroon and green smoke bombs were also thrown on the field before and during the first half of the Scottish Premiership game. Horgan scored again in the second half to give fifth-place Hibernian a 2-1 victory.
"It is the first time I have ever heard of a coconut being thrown on," Hearts manager Craig Levein said. "Who has got a spare coconut to throw on? Honestly, it is mental."
___
Supported by
On SOCCER
Tottenham will open its billion-dollar stadium on Wednesday, an arena the club hopes will be a catalyst for the revival of its entire neighborhood. But not everyone is certain they will be included in those plans.
ByRory Smith
LONDON — Standing outside the Lilywhites Sandwich Bar, Ali Demirci pointed, proudly, to the fresh paint on the window frame. Its color was one of those on-trend grays from an upscale catalog, with a name like Elephant’s Breath orSlipper Satin. “The club came and did it,” Demirci said. He glanced upward to the other minor alteration to the shop he owned until a few weeks ago: a bright white sign. “But I installed that myself.”
On the other side of the road, the change has been rather more drastic. The window seats at the Lilywhites Sandwich Bar now offer a view of the gleaming glass frontage of the $1 billion, state-of-the-art stadium that — starting Wednesday evening, when it hosts its inaugural Premier League game — Tottenham Hotspur will call home.
The territory is, of course, familiar: The new stadium is on the same patch of land as the atmospheric, historic, old White Hart Lane, where Spurs played for 118 years. The horizon, though, is different: the club hopes the new stadium represents not just a great leap forward for Spurs — proof, in concrete and steel, that this team belongs among Europe’s pre-eminent powers — but for English soccer as a whole.
Chris Lee, its chief architect, said he had looked at some 300 stadiums around the world for inspiration and incorporated the best elements he could find into what he labeled the “best” stadium on the planet: an arena supposed to be more modern than Wembley, sleeker than Old Trafford, bigger (crucially) than Arsenal’s home at the Emirates. It is supposed to set what Daniel Levy, the Spurs chairman, described as a “new standard” for sports stadiums.
The arena’s centerpiece is the biggest single-tier stand in England, capable of holding 17,500 fans, modeled on Borussia Dortmund’s Südtribune — known, more commonly, asthe Yellow Wall. It claims to be home to the longest bar in Europe. It has a retractable field, allowing it to host not only Premier League matches but N.F.L. games, too. It has its own microbrewery and a restaurant run by a Michelin-starred chef. And, in what is surely a first for a soccer team, Spurs will have its own on-site sommelier.
The appeal for Levy and the club, of course, is the financial boost all of that can bring: more fans, spending more time and more money, all of it flowing straight into the team’s coffers. Levy said Tuesday that, with the extra revenue generated by the stadium, Spurs’ income would be in the world’s top 10.
This is a team that has long had to wheel and deal in the transfer market. On Sunday, the club’s manager, Mauricio Pochettino, admitted he and his staff had laughed at the sight of Naby Keita and Fabinho, £100 million worth of talent combined, on Liverpool’s bench when the teams met, representing a luxury way beyond Spurs’ means. Tottenham’s new home is, in time, supposed to change that, to turn Spurs into a club that can compete with the elite not just on the field, but off it.
The effects of the stadium, though, will resonate beyond Spurs’ balance sheet. The club has long claimed it can be a “catalyst” for the regeneration of the neighborhood around it. At a news media presentation on Tuesday, the club’s executive director, Donna Cullen, opened with a photograph of a burning car: a reminder ofthe riotsthat scarred the area — before spreading across the capital and the country — in 2011.
That hot, angry summer, Cullen said, was the “trigger” for Spurs to think about what it could do to improve not only its own horizons, but those of the place it represents. The area around Tottenham, Haringey, is the fifth-most deprived borough in London, she said: The club was taken over by a spirit of “let’s see what we can do.”
The local authority, Haringay Council, does not entirely accept the idea that Tottenham’s rebirth rests on the stadium. Charles Adje, the councilor responsible for regeneration, said he would not use the word “catalyst” himself, but he acknowledged that it “adds value to the area.”
Both the club and the council project that the new stadium could pour around £293 million a year into the local economy; Spurs estimated that it would be responsible for more than 1,700 jobs. “This stadium and this new club is going to make a massive, massive difference to the people of Tottenham,” David Lammy, Tottenham’s member of Parliament, said this week.
That, too, will take time, of course. So far, the main visible differences to Tottenham High Road are the new facades on the sandwich bar, the convenience store and a handful of other properties across from the stadium. The streets running to and from it are, otherwise, much the same as always: a jumble of jerk chicken places and nail bars, Polish supermarkets and tumbledown mechanics.
Smoking a cigarette outside the barbershop he has run for 25 years, Inan Gulecyuz said he was happy to wait. The stadium opening is, technically, bad news for him: Business drops on game days, he said, and with soccer and the N.F.L. to fit in, he will lose a little trade.
That will, he hopes, be offset by the benefits it will bring. “They have changed a lot of the shops just up the road,” he said. “Hopefully the same thing will happen down the road, too.”
A little further from the stadium, Irfan Sahin was serving coffee in Fieldseat, his delicatessen, café, bookshop and organic food market. Soft classical music played overhead.
Sahin said that he expected the stadium to alter the character of the area, to encourage more businesses to open — “There is no other Michelin-starred restaurant in north London,” he noted — but then, he said, Tottenham is changing anyway: In London, gentrificationis a constant tide, regardless of where soccer clubs play.
“It is very different from when I first came here in 2001,” he said. “It is slow, of course: We had two gang fights right outside in the last year or so. But there are more places opening all of the time: bars and pubs and cafés and restaurants. It is not as expensive as central London, or as expensive as east London, so it is a good place to open. Hopefully it will be better with the stadium.”
Academic literature is unclear on whether that will hold true. Writing in the Journal of Economic Perspectives in 2000, John Siegfried and Andrew Zimbalist concluded — based largely on case studies in the United States — that while “team owners have argued that sports facilities boost local economic activity, economic reasoning and empirical evidence suggest the opposite.”
There are those in Tottenham, certainly, who feel disenfranchised by the speed of change and by redevelopment proposals backed by the council and the club.
“There is a real risk of companies going out of business if we cannot find alternative locations in the neighborhood,” said Feruk Tepeyurt, the owner of a local joinery firm and chairman of the Peacock Industrial Estate, home to more than 50 small businesses but, under both the council’s plans and a separate project proposed by the club, scheduled to become a park. “Do we need a park, or do we need a community of small businesses, a lot of them run by local, black and minority ethnic people?”
That is the tension inherent in any regeneration, of course: the issue of who, precisely, it is supposed to work for, of whose needs it is meeting. “There is a thin dividing line between seeing the stadium as a catalyst for regeneration and a Trojan horse for social cleansing,” said Mark Panton, an academic at Birkbeck College who has written extensively on the dispute.
There is one change left to come: Transport for London, the capital’s transit authority, is expected to accept a proposal to rename White Hart Lane, the nearest train station to the stadium, to Tottenham Hotspur.
It is not unprecedented — Arsenal has had its own tube stop, dating to the 1930s — but nor is it universally popular. The objection is based on the idea that erasing the station’s name wipes clean a century or so of history; that it needlessly, ham-fistedly conflates the identities of Tottenham the area and Tottenham the team; that it creates the impression, deep down, below the fresh coats of paint, that the place exists to serve the club, rather than the club existing to reflect the place.
Rory Smith is the chief soccer correspondent, based in Manchester, England. He covers all aspects of European soccer and has reported from three World Cups, the Olympics, and numerous European tournaments.@RorySmith
Supported by
ByAndrew Das
U.S. Soccer has invited South America’s 10 soccer federations to bring their national teams to the United States in 2020 for a new intercontinental championship that would run concurrently with that summer’s European Championship.
The offer, a package that includes almost $200 million in guarantees to the invited teams and their governing bodies, was made Tuesday in a letter from U.S. Soccer’s president, Carlos Cordeiro, to his counterparts at the 10 South American federations. For the past year, soccer officials across the Americas have held discussions about creating a quadrennial tournament involving national teams from both continents, but with no agreement in sight, U.S. Soccer, eager to fill a gap in the global soccer calendar and bearing an enticing nine-figure offer, is now proposing to establish its own.
In the letter, Cordeiro said U.S. Soccer was offering to underwrite the new event and guarantee each nation — and both confederations — millions of dollars in appearance fees, subsidized travel and bonuses for each point earned. The champions could take home a prize of more than $11 million. Cordeiro has invited the South Americans to a meeting to discuss the proposal next week in Miami.
The proposed 16-team tournament would resemble, in structure though most likely not in name, the 2016 Copa América Centenario. That tournament, a relocated version of the South American championship — expanded to celebrate the event’s 100th anniversary — brought the 10 members of the South American confederation, Conmebol, to the United States for a month to face off not only against one another, but also a half-dozen opponents from Concacaf, the regional confederation made up of North and Central America and the Caribbean.
That tournament was considered a sporting and — perhaps more important — a financial success, andwas won by Chile, which beat Argentina in a penalty-kick shootout in the final in East Rutherford, N.J. The new event would take place in June and July next year.
The proposed 2020 tournament would again include all 10 South American teams, plus six from Concacaf, and would most likely feature a group stage and then a knockout round to determine a champion. U.S. Soccer’s role in the offer, and Concacaf’s consent, would be critical to making the event happen, since both would have to approve any plans to hold such an event in the United States.
Concacaf released a statement Tuesday night acknowledging receipt of Cordeiro’s overture and expressing support for its broad strokes: “We view this opportunity positively as it is not intended to replace or substitute any future editions of the Concacaf Gold Cup and it complements our vision to continue providing opportunities for our Member Associations to play competitive football at the highest level.”
In his letter, a draft of which was seen by The New York Times, Cordeiro took pains to emphasize that the new event would be a singular tournament, and not meant to replace existing events like the Copa América or the Gold Cup, which would continue separately. Conmebol, which will contestthis year’s Copain June and July in Brazil, said last year that it was planning to shift the Copa América to a quadrennial schedulestarting in 2020, to coincide with UEFA’s European Championship. Concacaf holds its own regional championship, the Gold Cup, in odd-numbered years; this year’s Gold Cup matches will be played in the United States, Costa Rica and at least one Caribbean nation.
For next summer, though, Cordeiro is proposing a larger, intercontinental event in the United States. The event could fill a gap in the global soccer calendar — at the moment, the Euros are the only major championship scheduled for that summer — but despite the millions being offered, it is unclear how South American and Conmebol officials will react to a tournament that would conflict with their Copa América plans.
The Copa América has included guest teams for years; Mexico and the United States have participated in it several times, and this year it will include Japan and Qatar.
For the United States, though, the event could have several positives. FIFA is expected to choose the dozen or so host cities for the 2026 World Cup in the next two years, so the tournament could be a chance for the 17 finalists to make their case for inclusion. It also would offer meaningful competition for the United States men’s national team as it heads into qualifying for the 2022 World Cup; that process began later than hoped because the search for the team’s head coach, Gregg Berhalter, was delayed, first by the World Cup bid and then by the search for a general manager to run the national team program. Hired in December, Berhalter has coached only two friendlies to date as he prepares for this summer’s Gold Cup.
If the proposed tournament with Conmebol does not come to fruition, U.S. Soccer could still press ahead with a new event, possibly a scaled-down tournament involving teams from other continents.


Supported by
BySteve Brenner
MIAMI — When David Beckham, the former captain of England’s national team, announced his intention to bring a Major League Soccer team to South Florida at a rousing event in downtown Miami five years ago, the excitementwas palpable.
“I remember thinking how amazing it was going to be,” said Cesar Molero, who runs a fan club named Vice City 1896.
When Beckham returnedlast yearfor a similar event, where he and many M.L.S. executives were joined by a group of deep-pocketed local investors, there were new plans, new promises and new colors on the scarves.
By September, Beckham’s expansion team had a new name (Inter Miami) and a new logo (with twin herons). By January, its newteam presidenthad put togetherthe core of a technical staff.
And on Wednesday, M.L.S. Commissioner Don Garber confirmed what he had been saying for months: that he has the “utmost confidence” that Beckham’s group will produce a team that is a worthy successor to recent M.L.S. start-ups inAtlantaandLos Angeles.
But just over a year before Inter Miami is set to take the field for the first time, its road is not without obstacles. Battles in the courtroom and with powerful residents of South Florida have blocked its progress more than once. The team is working on its fifth potential stadium site, with no assurances that this one will be the last, and is facing multiple lawsuits seeking to block the club’s right to acquire the property.
Even the most passionate followers of the team — who are united more around an idea than anything tangible — have been pulled in different directions. The cause of their split is the most basic of disputes: They disagreed over what their group should be called.
The original fan group — known as the Southern Legion — was also the largest, with more than 400 dues-paying members. But last year it sought torenameitselfThe Siege.
“We felt a change was appropriate once we saw the crest,” said Max Ramos, a founding member of the Southern Legion. “A group of herons is calleda siege. It felt right.”
Those who felt otherwise split off and kept the original name. Ramos insisted there were no hard feelings. The amicable split, he said, is a sign of the camaraderie that has helped fans remain steadfast in their dedication to Beckham’s grand, but at times excruciatingly fluid, plan.
There is no turning back at this point, anyway. Last year, Beckham and his new group of well-financed, well-connected investors were finally granted the rights to an expansion place in the league. Satisfied that doubts about a stadium plan and the Beckham group’s resources and local commitment had been resolved, the commissionerconfirmedthat the team would enter M.L.S. in the 2020 season.
The matter of where it will make that debut, however, is a bit more complicated.
Inter Miami has been the focus of a stream of legal action in recent months, with issues includingan ethics complaintrelated to the owners’ political lobbying, disputes about thefeasibilityof building a stadium on its preferred site andthe legality of public voteson the matter.
Thwarted at several downtown locations, the team now has its sights on creatingMiami Freedom Park, a $1 billion complex spread over 160 acres atMelreese Country Club, a city-owned golf course near Miami International Airport. Critics have ridiculed the proposal as a real estate deal with a 25,000-seat soccer stadium included, but a larger problem may lurk underneath the golf course: Last July, it was revealed that it sits atopa toxic waste dump.
“There are so many holes in their plans — it’s unreal,” said David Winker, a Florida-based lawyer who has filed two lawsuits against Beckham’s franchise in the past five months.
Winker described himself as a soccer fan eager to take his family to matches when the team begins play — Florida International University could serve as a temporary home while the legal fights continue — but not, he said, at any cost.
“I was immediately suspicious of how the deal was being conducted — behind closed-door negotiations and in a frantic rush,” Winker added, calling it “just a terrible way to introduce a new sports team to Miami.”
Still, in November, it appeared that Beckham, his ownership group and M.L.S. had finally cleared the last hurdle. Amid songs, drumbeats and free paella on Election Day, Beckham and his new partners — including Jose and Jorge Mas, the Miami-based construction magnates; Masayoshi Son, the billionaire Japanese owner of SoftBank; Marcelo Claure, the former chief executive of Sprint telecommunications; and the pop-music mogul Simon Fuller — celebrated victory in a public referendum that had granted them the right to enter into a noncompete bidding process for the Melreese property.
Just 24 hours later, however, those negotiations were frozen because of an ethics complaint filed by Winker after he noticed that of all the people who spoke on behalf of the project before the city commission that will decide its fate, none had properly registered as a lobbyist. Those speakers included the aunt of the commission’s chairman, Keon Hardemon.
Although the Miami-Dade County ethics commission issued a letter last month advising that the negotiations over a 99-year lease on the golf course site could move forward while an investigation continued, problems persist.
Winker filed a lawsuit in which he argued that city documents provided an unclear land description, and that the city should be prohibited from using the referendum as authorization to negotiate a no-bid lease. Ordinarily, he said, that type of sale would be open to bids.
A separate lawsuit by Bruce C. Matheson, a wealthy landowner in South Florida, also took aim at the referendum. Matheson had previously filed suit to block a stadium planned for the Overtown neighborhood of Miami, near where he owns property.
“Each plan seems more convoluted than the last,” Matheson said this month.
Victoria Mendez, the city’s lawyer,told The Miami Herald last monththat the actions filed by Winker and Matheson did not “depict a clear understanding of our codes.” M.L.S. continues to express its support; in November, Garber hailed the victory in the stadium referendum as “a historic dayfor the sport in our country.”
Inter Miami, meanwhile, is plowing ahead.
“The baseless and frivolous lawsuits/complaints will not deter any of our efforts and focus,” Jorge Mas wrote in an email. “These are sideshows and a nonissue to our plan.”
Beckham, who is based in London, has placed confidence in his local partners to navigate the political and legal waters of South Florida.
The team’s fans appear to be doing the same.
“Once we begin playing next year,” said Ramos, the Siege leader, “everything else will be forgotten.”
Supported by
ByTariq Panja
LONDON — Confronted with what they consider a power play by a group of wealthy soccer clubs to promote the Champions League at the expense of national championships, representatives of Europe’s domestic leagues will meet in Lisbon this week to discuss a strategy to protect what they say is decades of tradition, and a basic sense of fairness.
What the leagues fear, several officials said, is what they consider a behind-the-scenes campaign to reshape European soccer for the exclusive benefit of the continent’s biggest clubs. The leagues contend the proposed changes to the Champions League, which include new barriers to entry for nonelite clubs and schedule changes that would push matches onto weekend dates, will diminish the relevance and marketability of domestic leagues, and potentially render many of their matches irrelevant.
At this week’s Lisbon meeting, an annual gathering of the umbrella European Leagues group, members will discuss plans to fight back — perhaps even in court — against suggested changes that they argue will adversely affect the competitions that still form the cultural and financial backbone of the global soccer industry. The coalition of leagues is a diverse group — leagues from Portugal to Ukraine are members — but a potentially formidable one given the influence and resources of members like England’s Premier League, Germany’s Bundesliga and Spain’s La Liga.
“The association of European Leagues is raising its voice and the leagues are cohesive more than ever in the defense and protection of domestic football,” said Alberto Colombo, the deputy general secretary of the European league body, in an interview.
While representatives of the continent’s richest and most powerful clubs and European soccer’s governing body, UEFA, say any discussions for reforming club competitions like the Champions League remain in their infancy, league officials have grown increasingly concerned about details of the proposed changes that have started to leak.
The most dramatic include reducing the size of national leagues and altering their schedules to allow European games to be played on weekends, a window historically reserved for domestic matches. The Bundesliga’s chief executive called weekend Champions League matches a “red line” that could not be crossed. English officials similarly declared the idea a nonstarter.
“It is the role of the Premier League and other English football organizations to govern the format of league and cup competitions in this country,” the Premier League spokesman Nick Noble said. “It would be wholly inappropriate for European football bodies to create plans that would alter the structure of domestic English football.”
Other proposals would see access to the Champions League itself severely restricted, with only 8 of 32 participants allowed to earn their places through success in domestic competition the previous season. The other 24 places would be reserved for teams already in the Champions League, or a handful of participants from a second-tier European club competition.
Andrea Agnelli, the president of Juventus, who leads the powerful European Club Association, said at that group’s annual meeting in Amsterdam last week that it would be at least a year before any changes would be finalized, and he refused to discuss details of proposals already under discussion. However, inan interview with The Guardian last year, he described reforms he would like to see that appear to be similar to those currently under discussion.
While the E.C.A. represents more than 200 clubs from across Europe, it is increasingly dominated by a handful of the largest teams. That group includes the likes of Juventus and Bayern Munich but also heavyweights from Spain and England like Barcelona, Real Madrid and Manchester United. Those clubs have for years used their might — and threats to break away and form an exclusive competition outside the current domestic league structure — to wrest concessions from soccer’s leaders.
Javier Tebas, the frequently outspoken head of Spain’s top league, said the proposal to restructure continental competitions for the benefit of the small group of rich clubs that already dominate them would spell doom for soccer in large parts of Europe. The changes would, Tebas said, allow the wealthiest clubs to widen the massive talent and resource gap they already enjoy, and tear away the fabric of the sport’s traditions.
Playing European competition matches on the weekend, in particular, would be “a recipe for the demise of football across Europe,” Tebas said in a statement. The Bundesliga’s chief executive, Christian Seifert, concurred in a speech earlier this year.
“The weekend must belong to the national leagues,” Seifert said. “They are the heart and soul of professional football.”
Access to the Champions League is currently linked to performance in domestic leagues, but under one set of proposals that could change drastically, with most participating teams allowed to compete year after year regardless of their league positions. In one plan, Europe’s top 32 teams would be divided into four groups of eight teams, with the top four each season advancing to a knockout round to determine the winner.
Such a change would dramatically reduce the attractiveness of national leagues for broadcasters, where the battle to qualify for European club competitions has long been part of the narrative sold to television companies. At times, in fact, the battle for Champions League positions has often been more compelling than the race for the title, which in some countries is often wrapped up months before the end of the campaign.
Agnelli hinted that, in the future, qualification could be based on success within European competitions — a setup that would maximize places for teams already in, and serve as a significant barrier to clubs trying to break in.
“It is certainly something that is logical,” he said when asked if teams could be promoted or relegated within a closed European system. The proposals could transform soccer’s top club competition into one that resembles a similar event in European basketball, where 11 of the 16 teams in the EuroLeague are guaranteed spots regardless of their domestic performances.
For the biggest clubs, a closed-off Champions League would offer financial certainty. But the leagues are vowing to defend a structure that currently allows any team the opportunity to win — on the field — a place among the giants.
“The leagues defend the basic values of the European sport model, based on sporting merits, an open-access pyramid structure where all clubs form the foundation and all clubs could live the dream to reach the top,” said Colombo, of the European league body.
While the top clubs have forged close links to UEFA thanks to a deepening friendship between Agnelli, the E.C.A. leader, and UEFA’s president, Aleksander Ceferin, the leagues — faced with a critical leadership void at a vital moment — have struggled to present a cohesive opposing voice. The Premier League, for example, remains without a leader after stumbling in its search for a replacement for its longtime chief executive Richard Scudamore, who retired last year. And Lars-Christer Olsson, the chairman of the European League body, has only recently recovered from a serious illness.


Supported by
ByTariq Panja
Not so long ago the idea of merely setting foot in the United States would have filled FIFA’s leaders with dread. The idea of holding an important meeting there would have been rejected as absurd.
That was because a sprawling corruption indictment by the United States Department of Justice in 2015 had threatened the very existence of FIFA, the governing body of world soccer. The investigation had producedthe dawn arrestsof more than a dozen top power brokers in the sport and eventually led tothe ousterof some of the organization’s most powerful figures. It left others fearful of traveling to the United States for any reason, lest they risk being picked up by the authorities.
Yet this week, almost four years later, FIFA is bringing the members of its governing council — a body that, in an earlier incarnation, was accused by the American authorities of engaging in graft schemes dating back decades — to United States soil for the first time since the scandal broke. The 37-member body, an expanded group now known as the FIFA Council, will hold a meeting in Miami on Friday to discuss, among other things, a significant expansion of the 2022 World Cup anda multibillion-dollar planfor a new World Cup-style competition for clubs.
The site of the meeting, FIFA says, is the latest sign that it has moved on from its corrupt past.
“It’s probably fair to say that there is a symbolic significance for the FIFA Council to meet in the U.S.A. for the first time since 2015,” FIFA, which is based in Zurich, said in a statement.
Four years ago, images of police officers leading soccer officials out of a luxury Swiss hotel in two separate dawn raids gripped the sporting world, unleashing a crisis that has cost FIFA millions of dollars and led to years of turmoil. Dozens of soccer officials, businessmen and companies have since pleaded guilty to charges in United States courts; others are fighting extradition; and two men, including the former head of South American soccer, were jailed aftera 2017 trialin New York. The crisis also led to the ouster of a number of executives not named in the indictments, including FIFA’s longtime president at the time, Joseph S. Blatter.
While there is little sign another blockbuster raid is in the offing, United States authorities’ interest in FIFA has not dimmed. Multiple defendants who have pleaded guilty in the case have not yet been sentenced, with prosecutors again agreeing this year to push back decisions about the punishments of at least five people, including an Argentine businessman who testified at the New York trial and has served as a key cooperating witness.
“FIFA remains ready to assist public authorities in all cases and, while the experience was difficult, we are finally very grateful that the U.S. Department of Justice intervened when it did to address some serious governance problems and, in so doing, help put FIFA on the path to reform,” its statement added.
The current leadership has attempted to build bridges with the American authorities. FIFA’s top legal official, the deputy secretary general Alasdair Bell, made it a priority to visit Brooklyn and meet with prosecutors upon joining the soccer body in September. His visit came a month after FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, met with President Trump at the White House.
Such trips were considered perilous four years ago. Blatter and his former No. 2, Jérôme Valcke, who facesa separate corruption investigationin Switzerland, skipped the Women’s World Cup when it was held in Canada in the summer of 2015, only weeks after the first raids in Switzerland. Other officials also have stayed safely out of reach.
FIFA has not confirmed whether any council members will skip next week’s meeting, though at least one may not travel, according to a person familiar with the council member’s thinking.
Coming to Miami also renews focus on Concacaf, the regional confederation that governs soccer in North and Central America and Caribbean. Based in the city, Concacaf is one of soccer’s six regional governing bodies, but it perhaps felt the most damage from the scandal: three of its former presidentswere chargedby United States authorities, and an internal probe later found multiple examples of rogue behavior, including self-dealing, indiscriminate use of private jets and even the recruitment of a private detective to snoop on individuals, including the former U.S. Soccer president Sunil Gulati, who still sits on the FIFA Council.
Concacaf, whichnearly closedamid a banking crisis brought on by the Justice Department case, is largely prospering after introducing governance reforms. It has also changed headquarters, moving from a location in Miami Beach that was the target of F.B.I. raids in 2015 to a new office in the city’s business district.
Its current president, Victor Montagliani of Canada, said Concacaf had “long turned the page” on its existential crisis.
“Having FIFA come to Miami for the first time since the events of 2015 marks a momentum forward for world football,” he said, “and we are glad to play our part.”
While its worst days may have passed, global soccer continues to be dogged by sporadic episodes of unethical behavior by senior figures. A Ghanaian member of the FIFA Council, Kwesi Nyantakyi, received a lifetime ban last year afterbeing caught on cameraaccepting thousands of dollars in cash from an undercover reporter. And last week, another council member, Lee Harmon of the Cook Islands,received a three-month banfor the illegal resale of tickets to last year’s World Cup in Russia.
To Miguel Maduro, a former governance head at FIFA, the continuing problems are both structural and cultural, part of a system that he said was still being run as a “political cartel.” Infantino, for example, will stand unopposed for re-election later this year in an election that will mirror the one for the presidency of European soccer in February. In that race, the incumbent, Aleksander Ceferin, was re-elected by acclamation.
Perhaps the biggest sign of FIFA’s difficulties in changing the culture is its inability to wean the council members who will be in Miami offthe kind of lifestyleeven they have acknowledged to be excessive. At previous meetings, for example, members have described being met on the airport tarmac and whisked to luxury hotels without having to go through the usual arrival protocol. Even after FIFA’s reforms, they receive annual salaries of $250,000, plus an additional per diem, to attend as few as three meetings a year.
“That’s one of the reasons you maintain the cartel,” Maduro said. “You have to satisfy the people that keep you in power.”
Rebecca R. Ruiz contributed reporting.




Supported by
On Soccer
ByRory Smith
DORTMUND, Germany — At first glance, it is easy to pinpoint the start of the Bundesliga’s love affair with young English players. The opening scene of a story that has swept a host of England’s brightest prospects out of the Premier League’s overstuffed academies and into top-flight German soccer is set at a specific time — the first few days of October 2016 — and in a specific place: Pula, Croatia.
That week, England’s under-17 team took part in the Croatian Cup, a youth invitational that also featured teams from Germany, Greece and the host nation. England won it, and in some style, rounding off the competition with an 8-1 rout of Germany.
Even before that, though, the amount of talent on display had turned heads. Several scouts from Bundesliga clubs had been in attendance at Pula’s Aldo Drosina Stadium for England’s first game, a 5-0 win against Croatia.
Though many of the English players involved would go on towin the under-17 World Cupa little more than a year later, one, in particular, stood out. A scout, present that day, remembers being taken aback by the player’s appetite. Even with England comfortably ahead, he said, he kept running, kept trying to score goals.
The scout flagged the player, Jadon Sancho, to his superiors, but to no avail. Less than a year later, Sancho was on his way to Germany, but to sign with Borussia Dortmund, another of the clubs that had watched him that day. Within a few months, he was a regular on Dortmund’s first team, a senior England international and one of the most coveted players in Europe.
He was also a trendsetter. After Sancho, a flood of young British players have landed in the Bundesliga: Arsenal’s Emile Smith Rowe — another veteran of that Croatian trip — and Reiss Nelson, on loan at RB Leipzig and TSG Hoffenheim; representatives at Augsburg and Borussia Mönchengladbach and Schalke.
In January, Bayern Munich wasso determined to signChelsea’s Callum Hudson-Odoi — another who featured in Croatia — that it offered 40 million euros (about $45 million) for a teenager who had made only a handful of senior appearances. Sancho’s effect, the legacy of that day in Pula, has been powerful.
It is a compelling story, but not necessarily an accurate one. Sancho has been presented as the trigger for German clubs’ fascination with young English talent, but, in reality, he was the end result: a consequence, rather than a cause, of a trend that dates way beyond 2016, one that explains why, exactly, all of those Bundesliga scouts were watching that under-17 game in Pula.
“About 10 years ago, we decided that young players had to be our focus as a club,” said Max Eberl, Mönchengladbach’s sporting director. “We had no financial potential to do anything else. We had to create money and value a different way.”
That meant keeping tabs on the best young talent not just in Germany, but across Europe. Mönchengladbach’s scouts started watching national youth teams, a shortcut to establishing which players were regarded as the best in their homelands, and a chance to compare them directly with the talent on the rise in Germany.
The initial emphasis, Eberl explained, was on France, Belgium and Holland — traditionally fertile breeding grounds — as well as markets like Denmark, where his club had strong links. England “was not a market we had focused on,” he said, but it did not take long to realize that there were a “lot of top players” in England’s age-group teams.
Eberl dispatched scouts not to watch the Premier League, but to games between clubs’ under-18 and under-23 teams. “At the time, English clubs bought players but did not care about their academies,” he said. “The players they were developing — 30 or 40 guys, really good, really well prepared — had no chance.”
Around the same time, Dortmund came to the same realization. “Five or 10 years ago, we had the feeling that the education and development of youth players in England is quite good,” Michael Zorc, the club’s technical director, said. “The teams don’t only spend money on transfers and salaries, but on infrastructure. When you see these academies, you cannot compare the standard with Germany. It is much, much higher.”
Most important, these state-of-the-art facilities were churning out players with the skill sets Bundesliga clubs needed. “England had so many creative players,” Nils Schmadtke, formerly the head scout at Cologne, said. “Kids like Sancho: good at penetrating the sidelines, not afraid in one against ones, good technique, fast.”
Just as significant as discovering this steady supply of talent in England, though, was the increasing demand in Germany.
Youth is the Bundesliga’s calling card. Germany’s top division prides itself on its clubs’ willingness to give players an opportunity — areportcompiled in February found that it is the youngest of Europe’s major leagues — regardless of age or experience. It sees and sells itself, according to one recent mailing, as a “talent factory.”
Increasingly, though, there are concerns that less and less of that talent is emerging locally, at a time when German soccer — both at the international level and within the Bundesliga — is in need of renewal.
The generation that won the 2014 World Cup failed miserably in Russia last summer, a disappointment compounded by relegation from its group in the inaugural Nations League last year. Joachim Löw, the national team coach, has vowed to transform the side, informing several stalwarts — Mats Hummels, Thomas Müller and Jérôme Boateng — that they will no longer be considered for selection.
For the first time in more than a decade, the Bundesliga will not be represented in the Champions League quarterfinals. Bayern Munich is already planning for a substantial overhaul of its squad at the end of the season.
It is telling that Hudson-Odoi, a young English winger, is at the forefront of its thinking: Zorc admitted last month that at the under-17 and under-19 levels, England had “overtaken” Germany. Schmadtke said that he believed the “individual skills” he saw from young English players — as well as on scouting trips to France — stood out because they are now so rare in his homeland. For Bayern, as for the national team, the pipeline of German talent has dried up.
Eberl, for one, believes that Germany has “made mistakes” in developing its young players. Clubs, he said, have fallen into the trap of trying to produce winning youth teams, rather than concentrating on individuals. Schmadtke feels German teenagers suffer because they are exposed too quickly to senior soccer, playing for so-called B teams in regional leagues, rather than in youth-specific competitions, as they do in England.
Both are confident that it is a hiatus, rather than a full stop. “We will have players in the future, but it will take time,” Eberl said. In the meantime, German clubs will continue to flock to England, hoping to find yet more players to follow the path Sancho has plotted. It is a result not of a love affair, but of the simple economics of supply and demand.
Follow Rory Smith on Twitter:@RorySmith.



Supported by
On Soccer
ByRory Smith
LIVERPOOL, England — Friday morning, and Goodison Park is quiet. There are no fans milling around the streets outside, spilling out of the Winslow pub, eagerly rushing to their seats. There is no noise, no color, no riot of blue and white. There are only a handful of cars in the parking lot. It is spitting with rain.
A stadium is a home, but that is, in truth, only an occasional role. These are places that blossom only every other weekend, as Goodison will on Sunday when Liverpool arrives for the latest Merseyside Derby. For much of the rest of the time, though, a stadium is dormant, quiet: an empty, expectant shell.
The day-to-day life of a club — the parts of it that are dedicated to the business of soccer, and the parts of it dedicated to the soccer business — happens elsewhere. For Everton, the former is at Finch Farm, its training facility on the eastern fringes of Liverpool. The latter is in the Liver Buildings, on the city’s sparkling waterfront, where Everton relocated its offices last year, a new home for all those departments whose job it is to sell shirts and tickets and sponsorship deals. To most fans, a club is a team, hopefully to win games. To all owners, a club is a business, hopefully to make money.
A club is more than that, though; there is another side, one which does its work not on the field at Goodison Park or in the suite of offices in the city, but in the tight warren of terraced streets that surround the stadium, in schools across Liverpool, in some of the most underprivileged parts of Merseyside.
Across the street from Goodison Park, a group of children are playing on the Cruyff Court — a small, artificial soccer field surrounded by a metal cage, built in conjunction with the Johan Cruyff Foundation — behind Everton’s community hub. Inside, teenagers mill and mingle with teachers and coaches in Everton polo shirts.
Around the corner, in what was once a run-down working men’s club, a few dozen retirees are spending the morning cycling through their memories — of Everton, of the city — over tea and cake. Pat van den Hauwe, a tough-tackling defender who played for the team in the 1980s, is helping serve the coffee.
On Goodison Road, the club has bought three houses and converted them into drop-in centers, safe spaces for anyone who feels they need a place to go. Their doors are always open. There is always someone to talk to. There is always food in the fridge.
All clubs run outreach programs, of course, and employ staff members to work in the communities they call home. But few, if any, can match Everton’s for size and scope. The buildings that house Everton in the Community cost more than $10 million to develop; the program’s annual budget is around $4 million. It has 125 staff members and 145 volunteers. It works in more than 200 locations: schools, youth clubs, community centers.
There is barely a part of life in Liverpool — and particularly in the L4 postal code that is home to both Goodison Park and Anfield, Liverpool’s stadium, and among the most deprived areas in Britain — that the club does not touch.
It oversees more than 40 social programs, focused on issues as diffuse asmental healthandserious organized crime; it reaches more than 20,000 people a year. Last year, Everton won a grant of 700,000 pounds, or about $925,000, to lead a government scheme on Merseyside to tackle gang culture.It has a presence in 150 schools. In September 2015, it became the first club tolaunch its own school.
Everton has, for more than a decade, styled itself as Liverpool’s People’s Club, a term popularized by David Moyes, its former manager, to distinguish it from its near neighbor. Banners bearing the phrase flutter from Goodison Park; scarves embossed with the slogan can be bought from stands around the stadium on match day.
“Our fans hold us up against that image,” Everton’s chief executive, Denise Barrett-Baxendale, said. “They expect us to live up to it. It is not a corporate social responsibility program. It is long-term, strategic work. It is a huge component of what Everton is.” So substantial, in fact, that before she was promoted to running Everton last year, Barrett-Baxendale ran not the commercial section of the club, or its merchandising arm, but its community department.
It is not just the scale of Everton’s work that marks it as different, though; it is the scope of it, too. Everton goes into areas other clubs — and other charities, even — might find “intimidating,” as Barrett-Baxendale put it. Sue Gregory, Everton in the Community’s director of youth engagement, recalls representatives of other teams marveling at the fact that Everton — in theory, just a soccer club — was prepared to work with convicted criminals, drug dealers, members of gangs. “You could see it as the club risking its brand,” she said.
Barrett-Baxendale does not. “We work on these issues because these issues exist on the streets of Merseyside,” she said. It is a view supported throughout the club. At the start of the season, Everton’s players signed a pledge that they would do their part to help with community work. A copy of it hangs on a wall in the Community’s hub. There have been times that players have had to be reminded to leave after sessions there: Tom Davies, the midfielder, once insisted he was happy to stay for as long as possible at one session because he was busy “coloring in unicorns.”
Gregory, her staff and her volunteers know how much all of that matters. They hear all of the stories: the teenagers forced to work selling drugs for gangs to settle their parents’ debts, or chased through the streets for punishment beatings; the boys sent hundreds of miles from home as part of the “county lines” phenomenon, in which city gangs seek to control the drug market in smaller towns; the children who stock up on food at the sessions because there is not enough to eat at home.
Everton does not have a choice, in other words, but to confront those problems. Shying away from them would make all the work it does nothing but tokenism. “This is our community,” Gregory said, adding: “These are the issues our community faces. There is a culture of ‘let’s try.’”
Wherever it can, it makes the most of the power of its crest: The white-on-blue depiction of Prince Rupert’s Tower, instantly recognizable, is part of the city’s civic scenery. It transcends tribal loyalty — many Liverpool fans are part of the Everton programs — and represents, instead, permanence.
“People trust the badge,” said Richard Kenyon, Everton in the Community’s chief executive. “They respond to it in a really powerful way. They’re drawn to it.”
Those who would normally eschew authority figures, those who would not respond to local government or a school principal, respond to that crest. Everton, they know, is not going anywhere.
“We are a consistent presence,” Gregory said. “Kids might have a really good connection with a teacher in one year, but then they move on, and the kids lose that. We are always there, so that bond is not lost.”
This, more than the team or the business, is what a club is, what a club can do. Not far from Goodison Park is one of Everton in the Community’s smallest projects: a little corner of scrap land that has been converted into an herb garden. The plot is little more than a postage stamp. When Everton started it, encouraging children from these streets to tend to it, some worried that it would be ruined, vandalized, maybe even in its first few days. That was months ago. It is still pristine.
Follow Rory Smith on Twitter:@RorySmith.



Supported by
ByKen Belson
ATLANTA — Most teams that win championships enjoy a honeymoon. There are parades and victory laps and time to prepare for a title defense.
Not so with Atlanta United, which won its first M.L.S. Cup on Dec. 8 and, because of Major League Soccer roster rules, had to spend the next dayreleasing some of the playerswho led it to the title. In fact, from almost the moment the final whistle blew in Atlanta United’s 2-0 victory over the Portland Timbers, the club president, Darren Eales, has had to grapple witha host of changes, including finding a new coach, selling one of his team’s best players and juggling the remaking of a star-studded roster.
At times, the off-season has seemed comically short. Atlanta United reconvened as a team and opened its preseason training camp in mid-January, then flew to California before the Super Bowl to prepare fora preseason friendlyagainst Club Tijuana. Last week, Atlanta Unitedlost to Costa Rica’s Herediano, 3-1, in the first stage of the Concacaf Champions League (the teams meet again in Atlanta on Thursday night), and on Sunday it opens its M.L.S. season against D.C. United in Washington.
All of this meant Eales had to get his off-season work done quickly, and he has not wasted any time. On Jan. 14, Atlanta United introduced Frank de Boer, the former manager of Ajax, Inter Milan and Crystal Palace, as the replacement for Atlanta’s former coach, Tata Martino, who took over Mexico’s national team. Then Eales signed Josef Martínez, the league’s most valuable player last season, to a five-year contract extension. Soon after, Pity Martínez, a 25-year-old Argentine midfielder, was signed; that move allowed Eales to sell Atlanta’s playmaker, Miguel Almirón, to England’s Newcastle United for a reported $23 million, smashing the M.L.S. transfer record.
Two days before the Super Bowl, the hyperkinetic Eales sat down at his favorite Atlanta coffee shop — appropriately named Octane — to discuss the team’s dizzying off-season, its sale of Almirón and whether, in fact, other teams in M.L.S. can copy the Atlanta model.
You knew you were going to have a lot of holes to fill in the off-season. What was the process?
When we went out and built the club, our intention was to be clear with the fans from the very start. We were going to attract players who were young, or going toward the prime of their career, rather than a last contract or a last hurrah for a player from Europe. The idea here is, we’re part of this global network of soccer clubs. Miggy came to us, he had two fantastic years, won the M.L.S. Cup in the second season, had tremendous success on the pitch, and then he got a chance to fulfill his dream to go to the Premier League and play for a club there. So obviously, it was good for him, good for the league, because now the league can say, ‘We have a mechanism for you to showcase yourself, so come to M.L.S., play in a short window, and when the right moment comes, you can move to a top league in Europe.’ That was the dream we sold, and we had to at least prove the concept because otherwise it was going to be difficult for us to recruit other players if we didn’t do that.
This business model is routine elsewhere, but it’s still new to M.L.S. Wasn’t it hard to see Almirón go?
Miggy delivered everything we could have expected, and we won an M.L.S. Cup. On top of that, we didn’t spend dead money on a player at the end of his contract and get nothing in return. We actually got well in excess of what we had spent on the player in the first place. So it makes good business sense, good sporting sense, and that was always the vision.
You signed Josef Martínez to a contract extension, then acquired Pity Martínez, before you sold Almirón. Was that sequencing deliberate?
We’re really pleased that we did the whole succession plan in reverse. We got our player in [Martínez] before we moved the player on to Europe [Almirón]. Hypothetically, if we first sold a player for $30 million and went out to buy a player, everyone’s going to quote us $30 million. It’s the nature of the beast. So to secure our replacement in advance with a number we were comfortable with, it gave us a little more carte blanche.
You also had to replace Tata Martino, whose reputation was instrumental in attracting young players toAtlanta for the first year.
When we sat there after winning the Cup, we knew the coach was going. The reality is, it’s no different than Nick Saban, who has said how he loses his coordinators every year but he doesn’t mind because he knowsthe replacementscome in and work hard because they have a chance to move on. We can embrace that as a club. When coaches want to come to Atlanta, they can see that as well. Frank de Boer coached at Ajax, at Inter and Crystal Palace. For me, I’m really excited because certain coaches fit players. With Ajax, he had great success. He went into situations [at Inter and Crystal Palace] that weren’t good fits. But he was the right fit for us.
A lot has had to go right: Not just the success on the field, but an owner with deep pockets, a new stadium, enthusiastic fans. You have all of that.
Everyone’s been asking when soccer is going to succeed in America, but if you watched the Cup final, with 73,000 passionate fans who were tailgating all afternoon, with an exciting style of play, it really has happened in America already. It’s great for me because yes, I wanted to make Atlanta United a real success story. But we’re also part of the bigger story, which is growing the game of soccer in America, being the pioneers to hopefully one day make it one of the top leagues in the world.
Can other M.L.S. teams replicate what you’ve done?
I’m not sure about replicating, but like every other business, you look at what other businesses are doing successfully and try to take those things that might work. I’m a fan of how L.A.F.C. came into the league. You saw the way they filled out their roster; there were similarities. I wouldn’t say they were copying us, but there were similarities. That’s a good thing. We were in a strange situation as pioneers trying to grow the league. There will be more teams looking, when they think of their out-of-pocket expenditures, money above the cap, not just the salaries — there’s much more awareness around investing more than we would have in a transfer fee for a younger player because we might have a chance to make a profit, or make our investment back. That’s going to open up an avenue for a few more clubs.
With all this activity, did you get a chance to take any time off this winter?
My aim is to get to March, the international break. I promised the wife and family I’ll take a week off, and football won’t be mentioned. I’m hoping to get to the end of March and then I’ll crash.


Supported by
ByRory Smith
Only hours after the president of European soccer’s governing body urged referees on Tuesday to call a halt to games marred by racial abuse, the Juventus striker Moise Kean, who is black, was subjected to racist abuse by fans. He was then criticized by one of his own teammates, as well as his manager, who blamed him for provoking the taunts.
The insults directed at Kean — and the reproach from his teammate and his coach — came only hours after Aleksander Ceferin, the president of UEFA, European soccer’s governing body, had told an equality conference in London that his organization would speak with referees and encourage them “not to be afraid to act” if they heard racist abuse from the crowd.
Hours later, in a match in Italy’s Serie A at Cagliari, Kean, a 19-year-old Italian forward of Ivorian descent, and two other black teammates, the French midfielder Blaise Matuidi and the Brazilian defender Alex Sandro, were subjected to consistent racial abuse from Cagliari fans during Juventus’s 2-0 victory.
19-year-old Moise Kean strikes AGAIN!He has scored a goal in each of his last four games!pic.twitter.com/2EWBkJZotx
When Kean, who is enjoying a breakout season with Juventus, scored his team’s second goal to seal the victory, he stood motionless, holding his arms out, in front of the Cagliari fans, prompting yet more abuse. Matuidi, his teammate, was incensed; the Juventus captain, Giorgio Chiellini, protested to the referee, Piero Giacomelli; and Cagliari’s captain, Luca Ceppitelli, asked his team’s fans to stop.
After the game, however, the Juventus defender Leonardo Bonucci suggested that Kean should shoulder an equal share of the blame because his celebration had antagonized those in Cagliari’s Curva — the end of the stadium where the team’s most ardent fans are housed — who were racially abusing him.
“Kean knows that when he scores a goal, he has to focus on celebrating with his teammates,” Bonucci said. “He knows he could have done something differently.
“There were racist jeers after the goal. Blaise heard it and was angry. I think the blame is 50-50. Moise should not have done that, and the Curva should not have reacted that way.”
Though Massimiliano Allegri, Juventus’s coach, told reporters that nothing justified the behavior of the fans — describing those who had racially abused his players as “idiots” — he, too, suggested that Kean had “provoked” some of the vitriol.
“He should not have celebrated in that manner,” said Allegri, a former Cagliari manager. “He is a young man and has to learn, but certain things from the crowd also should not be heard. You need great intelligence to deal with these situations and should not provoke people.
“That, of course, does not mean the idiots in the crowd and the way they reacted should be justified.”
Allegri insisted that he does not believe halting games is the solution to ending racist abuse, though, because, he said, “not everyone in the stadium” should be punished for the actions of a few.
“I don’t think talking about it all the time helps,” he said.
Kean posted his own response on his Instragam account: a photo of his silent, arms-out goal celebration and the words, “The best way to respond to racism.”
The president of Cagliari, Tommaso Giulini, said Juventus players had told him that Kean was wrong to celebrate in front of the home fans, and he bemoaned all of the “moralizing” over the incident — claiming that there had been no racist abuse until Kean had provoked the fans.
“Cagliari rejects the accusations of racism,” he said. “Nothing had happened until the goal. Do not exploit the thing.”
A welter of high-profile players moved immediately to support Kean: Raheem Sterling, himselfa victim of racist abusethis season, told Bonucci on Instagram that his comments were laughable; Paul Pogba, a former Juventus player, encouraged “good Italians” to “wake up, you can’t let a small racist group speak for you.”
The abuse aimed at Kean was only the most recent in a litany of racist incidents in Italian soccer: In December, the Napoli defender Kalidou Koulibaly was abused during a game against Inter Milan; last year, the striker Michy Batshuayi, then playing for Borussia Dortmund, claimed that he was racially abused during a game at Atalanta, in Bergamo. Matuidi has previously been abused at Cagliari and at Verona.
Football Against Racism in Europe, an activist group, has described the problem in Italy as an “epidemic,” linking it to a rise in far-right politics and anti-immigration policies.

Supported by
ByTariq Panja
MIAMI — Against the wishes of European soccer leaders, FIFA pushed through plans for a revamped World Cup of clubs featuring 24 teams at a meeting of its governing council on Friday. The decision ended a debate that had lasted a year, while at the same time raised doubts about the caliber of participants in a major new competition championed by FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino.
The remaking of the competition from winter afterthought to potential summer moneymaker — a replacement for the Confederations Cup, an unpopular national-team competition usually held a year before the World Cup — has led to a major breakdown in relations between FIFA and European soccer’s governing body, UEFA. All the European members at the FIFA meeting voted against the plan for the new tournament on Friday.
European club teams, whose participation will be critical to the success of the reimagined Club World Cup, reiterated their opposition to the event only minutes after FIFA made its announcement that it had been approved. The European Club Association, an umbrella body for the continent’s top teams, said its members would not participate in the event, even though FIFA’s plan includes slots for eight European teams.
Infantino, though, described himself as “a happy president,” saying he was confident that after further talks, opposition to the event would subside and the world’s top teams would take part. He pointed out that the event — held every four years — could bring in billions of extra dollars to FIFA’s coffers, which currently benefit from more than $6 billion from each World Cup.
“We hope all the greatest teams will participate,” Infantino said at a news conference. “The best teams should have this world platform.”
The main opposition to the plans largely relates to adding more events to soccer’s already busy global calendar, with fears that even more games could burn out top players, or leave them susceptible to injuries. UEFA said any changes should wait until 2024, when a new comprehensive schedule for global soccer is set to be approved.
The Club World Cup plan had led to an almost complete breakdown in the relationship between Infantino and Aleksander Ceferin, the UEFA president. The men had not held talks for a year since a meeting last year in Colombia during which Infantino first unveiled the proposal. They did, however, meet for an hour on Thursday morning, where Ceferin outlined UEFA’s continued opposition.
In other news Friday, the FIFA Council agreed to push ahead with plans to expand the World Cup in Qatar to 48 teams, an undertaking fraught with complexity amid an ongoing diplomatic and economic standoff between Qatar and a group of its Gulf neighbors.
A study conducted by FIFA recently found Qatar, a desert state smaller than Connecticut, could not host an event with 16 more teams on its own. Unless the blockade — led by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates — is lifted, only Oman and Kuwait could be considered viable partners in the region. But both countries would be required to spend significant amounts on the infrastructure required to meet FIFA standards.
Greg Clarke, a FIFA vice president from England, told the meeting that FIFA must consider the human rights records of any additional host country, according to people present at the meeting. Qatar has been forced to adopt new workers regulations amid a backlash over its treatment of construction workers building the stadiums there. That scrutiny would likely shift to its neighbors, Clarke told the council members.
“How can you not think of human rights wherever you go? It must be an issue,” said Evelina Christillin, a FIFA Council member from Italy.
A delegation from Qatar, which was awarded the World Cup almost a decade ago, was also present in Miami. Hassan al-Thawadi, the executive responsible for 2022 World Cup preparations, said Qatar remained open-minded about expansion, provided it benefited Qatar as much as it did FIFA. He failed to answer when asked to provide one example of a benefit that his country could derive from an expanded tournament.
“We are open to exploring the options,” al-Thawadi said, adding it would be a “big, big challenge” to host a 48-team event if the blockade, now in its second year, continued. FIFA must make a final decision at a meeting of its 211 members in Paris in June; qualifying for the tournament begins that month, and teams and federations would need to know how many places are available.
Should the World Cup be enlarged, FIFA would need to play six matches per day to ensure the tournament can be completed within 28 days, a stipulation it agreed with European clubs after moving the tournament to November to avoid the searing Gulf summer. That would mean rest periods for some teams of as little as 48 hours, and a potential risk to athlete’ health, according to the largest players’ union, FIFPro
“At international competitions like the World Cup, the minimum rest period between matches must be maintained at 72 hours,” FIFPro said in a statement.



Supported by
ByTariq Panja
FIFA President Gianni Infantino’s plans to reorder world soccer are being stymied by a familiar foe: Europe.
Since proposing several major changes to the sport’s calendar last spring, Infantino has spent months traveling the world hosting minisummits with the leaders of FIFA’s 211 member federations. His goal is to win support for a proposal to introduce two new tournaments — an expanded World Cup for clubs and a new league for national teams — that would be underwritten by a $25 billion offer from a group led by the Japanese conglomerate SoftBank.
The listening exercise follows repeated failures by Infantino to force the proposals through FIFA’s governing council, but if they are approved they would represent the biggest changes to soccer in a generation, and their adoption — and the multibillion-dollar cash infusion to FIFA — would provide Infantino with a signature success ahead of his bid to secure a second term as FIFA president later this year.
Each of the meetings on Infantino’s tour, including the most recent one held in Marrakesh, Morocco, has included about 50 federation leaders from across soccer’s six regional confederations. At the end of each session, the federation representatives are handed electronic tablets and asked to select their preferred options for the new tournaments.
Infantino’s problem is that European officials attending the meetings have stubbornly refused to offer any opinions. Instead, they have told Infantino and his team that the feelings of Aleksander Ceferin, the president of the European governing body, UEFA, and his governing council represent their views.
Some of the Europeans balked because the list of options for the Club World Cup did not include the option of not holding the tournament, which is often an annoyance for the European champion who attends, at all. On FIFA’s tablets, voters are asked to pick from only three choices: a tournament with 16, 24 or 32 teams.
Ceferin, under pressure from clubs and federations in Europe, has clashed repeatedly with Infantino over the proposed changes both to the Club World Cup and to the broader global soccer calendar, with Ceferin most frustrated by new initiatives that could challenge the hegemony of existing club tournaments like UEFA’s Champions League and add to the workload of players.
“I cannot accept that some people who are blinded by the pursuit of profit are considering to sell the soul of football tournaments to nebulous private funds,” Ceferin said in a speech last May. “Money does not rule — and the European sports model must be respected. Football is not for sale. I will not let anyone sacrifice its structures on the altar of a highly cynical and ruthless mercantilism.”
Infantino first presented details of a plan for an expanded Club World Cup at a FIFA Council meeting in Bogotá, Colombia, last March. Citing a nondisclosure agreement, he refused to identify the financial backers of the proposal, which are believed to include not only SoftBank but also financing from the Middle East, which Infantino eventually denied were directly linked to sovereign wealth funds. (Saudi Arabia remains the biggest individual backer over Softbank’s Vision Fund, the biggest private-equity fund ever raised.) Instead, Infantino pressed the council to let him close the deal on his own.
European leaders at the meeting balked, and Ceferin and Infantino have not held a meeting since the Colombia summit. In October, European officials threatened to walk out of the last meeting when Infantino suggested he planned to call another vote.
The vote did not take place; instead, FIFA set up a task force involving representatives from the six confederations and asked it to produce an acceptable plan before a scheduled FIFA Council meeting in March in Miami.
At the last summit, in Morocco, Infantino expressed frustration to the officials who declined to take part in the vote for his plans, according to multiple people present at the meeting.
“As part of this discussion, people are asked to give their feedback on a series of proposals and, as in any democratic consultation process, every member can express its opinion freely,” FIFA said in a statement. “The feedback received will be fed back to the Council together with the results of the other consultation platforms.”
FIFA’s task force for the two tournaments will hold its next meeting on Feb. 21 in Rio de Janeiro. As tensions grow, however, there is a chance that European executives will not attend, according to a person familiar with the continental leaders’ plans.
UEFA declined to comment. The organization has been seeking the support of European clubs and leagues to oppose Infantino’s proposals. At the last two meetings, Ceferin has arrived armed with signed letters of opposition from The European Club Association, a union of the continent’s top clubs, and a separate group representing the continent’s domestic leagues.
The proposals to expand the Club World Cup and to create a new global Nations League similar to the recently created UEFA version largely have the backing of officials from South America, Africa and Asia — likely enough to win a vote should Infantino choose to take one at the Miami meeting. Any such move would exacerbate the growing rift with Europe, however, and potentially lead to a larger crisis if top clubs and leading nations from UEFA refuse to participate in the new FIFA-controlled tournaments.



Supported by
ByAndrew Keh
LEIPZIG, Germany — Upon moving to Germany from the United States last summer, Jesse Marsch, his wife, Kim, and their three children made a pact of sorts regarding their new life abroad: When a situation that felt foreign made them want to turn inward, they would challenge themselves to do the opposite, to turn outward and embrace it, to accept and understand it.
Such discomfort has been precisely the point for Marsch, the very reason he diverged from an ascendant coaching path in the United States last summer and sought out the unknown across the Atlantic Ocean.
In July, Marsch left his job as coach of the New York Red Bulls in Major League Soccer to accept a post as an assistant coach for RB Leipzig in the Bundesliga. While unquestionably a step up in competition, it was, in some respects, still an unconventional move, and Marsch said even some of his friends in soccer asked him if taking a job as an assistant might be a step backward.
But what represents a step backward, and what is the convention, when you are navigating a mostly uncharted path? Because while opportunities for American players in Europecontinuetoexpand, there is not yet much of a road map for what Marsch wants to be: an American coach who builds a long, successful career in one of the continent’s top leagues.
And so he has chosen to seek out that challenge, to take chances and to face the unknown and the unfamiliar head on.
“I’ve gotten more comfortable,” he said, “with being uncomfortable.”
After decades of battling stereotypes and preconceived ideas about their abilities, American players have, slowly, found a level of acceptance in European soccer. One of the players Marsch brought into the Red Bulls’ first team, for example, was viewed even here as a solid addition when he joined RB Leipzig this month. That player, the 19-year-old Tyler Adams, and other American prospects now head to the continent in waves, and in general the professional pathways there have become well worn and widely available.
A similar process has yet to unfold for American coaches, however. There are no set pathways, and there are few pioneers.
Marsch regards one of them, Bob Bradley, as the “biggest mentor” in his career, and he has found Bradley’s experiences instructive. From 2014 to 2016, Bradley held head coaching jobs for clubs in Norway, France and England. Looking back, his stint abroad was as notable for the milestones he set for American coaches — he wasthe first Americanto coach a team in England’s Premier League — as it was for the relentless stream of misgivings from fans and pundits in whatever new locale he landed. (Bradley’s Premier League tenure lasted all of 11 games.)
“The perception of Bob, I think, when he was here is that he probably wasn’t as knowledgeable because he’s from America, that his accent and the way he talked about football may have brought questions up within fan bases about how do Americans think about football, how do they talk about football, even use the word football,” Marsch said. “All those things are unfair, but they’re realities we have to deal with.”
That is what Marsch knows he is up against now, and it is the reason he says he has tried to take a holistic approach to this new chapter of his life.
Under RB Leipzig’s manager, Ralf Rangnick, Marsch has assumed what he described as a fluid, all-encompassing role. At the same time, he is responsible for a weekly set of tasks — running different elements of training, game analysis and opponent preparation — whose strict implementation he has found exhilarating in a way only a knowledge-hungry coach can.
While RB Leipzig and New York’s Red Bulls are both technically part of the same corporate sports empire, his first months experiencing the nuances of German soccer culture — the structure, the specificity, the attention to detail — reiterated for him how much he still can learn.
“It would have been easy for me to stay in New York,” Marsch said about his last job in Major League Soccer, where he spent three and a half seasons and compiled the most wins in franchise history. “But in the end, that wasn’t really what I was interested in.”
Instead, Marsch, who had begun the process of obtaining hisUEFA pro coaching licensein 2017,accepted an offerto join the Leipzig coaching staff and left the Red Bulls in midseason. Rangnick, an experienced coach and former Red Bull sporting director, is in his second stint leading Leipzig but plans to coach only for this season. The club has previously announced that Hoffenheim’s Julian Nagelsmann, a rising star in German coaching,will take over this summer.
“I know the league, the team and I speak the language,” Rangnick said when he returned to the bench. “That isn’t the case yet for Jesse Marsch, so that’s why he will be working as an assistant coach.” Still, the club noted specifically when it hired Marsch that he had signed a two-year contract, withthe expectationthat he would continue in the role once Nagelsmann arrives.
Until then, Marsch has been stockpiling professional experiences like a backpacker collecting souvenirs. That mind-set was one reason he was not interested in pursuing the United States national team coaching job, which still sat vacant when he left for Europe. Marsch wants to hold the position one day, he said, but only after he has accumulated more experience.
Now, he said, it better that the American soccer ecosystem put its collective support behind the coach who was chosen, Gregg Berhalter, and move away from the negativity that seemed to infest its culture in the past year.
“If I were to be critical of the sport in our country in general, I think we have failed ourselves miserably because everyone is the smartest guy in the room and everyone is the biggest critic, inside the game and out,” he said. “And that will never be successful.”
Marsch also said he hoped more of his coaching peers from the United States would pursue unfamiliar pathways and leaps of faith, like the one he is taking now, so that opportunities for American coaches in the top levels of the game might one day seem as plentiful as they have become for players.
Adams is one such player, and Marsch said he was eager to throw new challenges at him, too. Adams made his debut for RB Leipzig in a friendly during Germany’s winter break, and was included in the first team for this weekend’s game against Dortmund, though he was an unused substitute in Leipzig’s 1-0 defeat.
“When you see this kid up close every day, it’s almost like you’re watching a weed grow by the second,” Marsch said of Adams. “That’s how he is. You throw something difficult at him, and he eats it up and spits it out.”
These days, Marsch takes German language lessons three times a week and uses the language in coaches meetings and with players on the field. While he has improved, he said, the process also has made look, at times, “like a fool.”
But those minor indignities, he noted, could serve as positives within a team context.
“I think it’s an important lesson in an leadership position to show that you’re willing to be vulnerable, you’re willing to make mistakes, and that’s how I’m going to get better,” he said. “I think that’s the same thing we want to portray to our players: ‘We all mistakes. You’re going to make mistakes. But let’s all learn from them. Let’s get better together.’”


Supported by
ByTariq Panja
A computer hacker who for yearspublished the innermost secretsof the global soccer industry — revelations that have shed light on questionable behavior by some of the sport’s most influential figures and top clubs — was told on Tuesday that he would be extradited to Portugal, where he faces charges linked to his activities.
Lawyers for the man, Rui Pinto, 30, immediately said they planned to appeal the decision made by a court in Budapest, where he was arrested in January. They argued that his whistle-blowing activities far outweighed any crimes he might have committed in securing the documents. In Portugal, Mr. Pinto is charged with an extortion attempt in 2015 on a secretive investment fundthat had bet millions of dollarsin the player transfer market.
The leaks first emerged in 2015, on a website called Football Leaks, before Mr. Pinto, a year later, joined with the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel and a group of other European news media organizations to slowly disseminate related news articles. They painted an unflattering picture of an industry troubled by questionable efforts to avoid millions of dollars in tax, flagrant rule breaking by some top clubs and an alleged sexual assault by one of soccer’s biggest stars, Cristiano Ronaldo.
While the Portuguese authorities want to put Mr. Pinto on trial, their counterparts in France and Belgium have said they want to work with him, to gain access to the enormous database he has compiled as they continue investigations into figures in the soccer world. The ruling in Hungary makes that difficult, said Francisco Teixeira da Mota, who is part of a legal team that includes William Bourdon, a French lawyer who previously represented the national security whistle-blower Edward Snowden.
Hungarian officials seized all of Mr. Pinto’s computer equipment, including hard drives containing the soccer industry data, when he was arrested. The Hungarian judge ruled that all of that can be sent to Portuguese authorities. That will chill efforts by the authorities in other countries, and make it impossible for further revelations to emerge, Mr. Teixeira da Mota said.
“We think if he’s extradited to Portugal it would put a stop to all that,” he said, adding that the Portuguese case is limited to Mr. Pinto’s conduct in relation to the investment fund Doyen Sports and the soccer team Sporting Clube de Portugal.
It is not clear how much of the data Der Spiegel possesses and how much of it the news weekly is prepared to share with investigators.
While being hailed as a whistle-blower by many, Mr. Pinto’s past conduct has raised questions about his motives. He reached an out-of-court settlement with the Caledonian Bank after being accused of hacking into its systems and transferring thousands of dollars from one of its client accounts. Mr. Pinto denies he stole any of the money, but citing a nondisclosure agreement, he has declined to provide further details.
As he awaits his fate, news media groups with access to his data continue to publish new revelations. As recently as last weekend, details emerged of an apparent effort by the Premier League giant Manchester City to circumvent fiscal rules set by European soccer’s governing body by disguising sponsorship payments, and another alleged scheme by the same club to run an off-the-books player recruitment fund.
Mr. Pinto’s appeal is likely to take up to two weeks to be settled, his lawyer said.



Supported by
ByTariq Panja
BILBAO, Spain — Europe’s midseason soccer transfer window is open this month. For teams battling relegation, and potential financial ruin, it brings a last, vital chance to strengthen a leaky defense or fortify a goal-shy forward line ahead of the second half of the season.
Among those teams is Athletic Bilbao, which is in 17th place in La Liga, the 20-team Spanish league, and already on its second manager this season.
Financially, Athletic, a century-old power on Spain’s northern coast, has little in common with the clubs that find themselves in a similarly grim position. The team is flush with cash, with about 200 million euros, or about $228 million, in reserves, and has access to another 90 million euros that — if deployed to lure talent from soccer’s global marketplace — would probably go a long way toward firing it up the league standings and out of danger. But unlike almost every other team in the market, Bilbao cannot spend those millions on just anyone.
Athletic is a throwback. Tradition dictates that it can only field players who were born in the Basque Country — territory that includes seven provinces that stretch from northern Spain into France — or who moved to the region in their youth and learned to play soccer here.
That purity has been a point of pride for the 121-year-old club. Athletic Bilbao has long celebrated that it has never been relegated from Spain’s top league, a feat it shares with only Barcelona and Real Madrid. But it is only one slot away from relegation position in La Liga, and its purity presents obvious difficulties when it comes to recruitment. Lately it has placed the team in a financial vise, transforming it into something of a unicorn in a sport in which nearly every other club is desperate for cash. Bilbao, with its flush coffers and narrowed options, has become soccer’s poor little loaded club.
“We don’t really need the money,” Josu Urrutia, a stocky, 50-year-old former Bilbao midfielder, said in an interview last month, shortly before he ended a seven-year run as Athletic’s president.
His replacement, Aitor Elizegi, though critical of some of Urrutia’s decisions, was quick to confirm that the team’s commitment to Basque-only players would not be changed.
Athletic can in some ways blame its recent success for its current fate. In the last eight years, the team has played six seasons in the second-tier Europa League (reaching the final once) and one in the Champions League. In 2012 and again in 2015, it reached the final of the Spanish cup.
The success of those largely homegrown squads quickly drew interest from bigger clubs, in Spain and abroad, and led to tough decisions for a conveyor belt of young, talented players. When the club’s management had any say, the answer to any inquiries to negotiate a multimillion-euro sale was a simple one: no.
Athletic, at least under Urrutia, never negotiated, whatever the price. Players would leave only if their buyout clause — a fee that would trigger a sale — was met, and Athletic’s management hoped it never would be.
Urrutia, sitting in an austere drawing room full of lacquered furniture on the ground floor of a mansion built in 1900 and bestowed to the club by one of the city’s historic trading families, described how the club lost defensive midfielder Javi Martínez to the German giant Bayern Munich a year into his presidency in 2011. This all happened after he tried to ignore Jupp Heynckes, then Bayern’s manager, who had coached Urrutia, a tough tackling midfielder during two spells at Athletic, and Bayern’s top two officials, Karl Heinz Rummenigge and Uli Hoeness.
“Jupp says, ‘We consider Javi is a player for the future, and 40 seems a lot; we are ready to pay 22 or 23,” Urrutia recalled. “We said: Perfect. So we don’t have to worry ourselves about it.”
In the end, Bayern paid the full 40 million euro buyout fee for Martínez, a sum that broke Germany’s transfer record.
Since then, the team has lost other players in a similar fashion. Ander Herrera, another defensive midfielder, joined Manchester United in 2014. Defender Aymeric Laporte became Manchester City’s costliest acquisition when he joined for 65 million euros. Most recently, Chelsea made Kepa Arrizabalaga the most expensive goalkeeper in the world after paying his full 80 million euro release clause.
All those deals, regardless of the fee, frustrated Urrutia. He wished all of Athletic’s players shared his values. Urrutia came through the club’s youth system and never wore another jersey in a two-decade career. The club, he said, tries to instill loyalty from the moment players enter the system.
Athletic officials like to play the guilt card and remind players that the Basque-only policy was probably the reason they were able to have a professional career in the first place — that the club could have picked other, better athletes if it had the option of shopping on the global market.
“It’s as though you’ve left the family business started by your granddad,” Urrutia said.
Urrutia and others explain that if players who came before the current ones had decided to leave, the club might have been forced to change its mission. If that had happened, Basque players might not have gotten their chance. The players should live these values, they said.
Money plays a role as well. Athletic now pays some of the highest salaries in Spain, far more than teams of an equivalent standard, Urrutia said. He said the average annual salary of a first-team player was four million euros.
When faced with replacing a departing player, the club always gives first preference to products formed at its Lezama academy, a world-class facility six miles outside Bilbao, the largest city in the Basque region. In each of the last five seasons, at least two academy players have graduated to the first-team roster.
“We give them opportunities to play for the first team even when they’re too young, because we need them,” Urrutia said.
Some players, so committed to the club’s philosophy, like midfielder Iker Muniain, 26, who has had offers to leave, have shunned the opportunity to play elsewhere. Just before Christmas, Muniain, an attacker who has been with the club for more than a decade and scored Monday, signed a new contract and asked that it have no buyout clause. “I’m pleased to do it,” he said. “We’ve had cases in which colleagues have left and people have felt sad and touched. This is a way for me to demonstrate my loyalty to the club.”
Occasionally, the team does have to turn to the transfer market. The options are limited to players born in the Basque region or those who trained here during their formative years. That allows sellers to take advantage of Athletic’s limitations.
This season, the team agreed to pay Paris St.-Germain a fee that could eventually reach 24 million euros for defender Yuri Berchiche, a defender who joined the French team from Real Sociedad for about eight million euros less just a year earlier.
“They know, and they try to squeeze us because they know that there are not so many possibilities for us,” Urrutia said. “We don’t have so many options in the transfer market.”
Athletic can afford this because only four teams last season received more money from Spanish television rights, which, for now, is determined by how often a team’s matches are shown. But a new distribution model aimed at reducing inequalities between teams is narrowing that gap. In the past, the biggest teams could get as much as 12 times more than others. That ratio is down to about 3.5.
Though the change is generally considered to be a positive one, it disproportionately affects Athletic because far smaller teams can now trawl the world for talent they could not afford before, boosting their squads, while Athletic remains committed to its local-only policy and other quirks that make it unique.
Its headquarters bear little resemblance to those of most teams. No brash logos, no video screens showing loops of historic success, no shop hawking memorabilia. Like the club, it is a throwback.
There are small if understated markers, like the modernist painting hanging on a wall inside a ground floor reception room. It depicts a great flood that has overwhelmed an entire city. The only visible structure is an arch resembling one from Athletic’s former stadium that was delicately moved to its training ground. It is a symbol, club officials say, that the team’s past will always be a part of its present and future, whether it risks relegation or fights for titles.
“We know the challenge: It’s a solitary challenge,” Urrutia said. “This is a voyage full of difficulties. There could be a tsunami, but at the end, we really believe in the strength of our boat and want to keep going.”



Supported by
On Soccer
ByRory Smith
MANCHESTER, England — At last, it seems, among all of the hundreds of millions of pounds that float around the Premier League, the penny has dropped.
The January transfer window has come and gone, barely noticed. There has been no orgy of excess, no frantic scramble to spend as much money as possible, no broken transfer-spending records, no helicopter dashes, no late-night drama.
For once — for the first time, perhaps — English soccer has been a model of restraint and of prudence. For once, it has looked not at price, but at worth. As one executive at a Premier League team toldThe Times of London, “People are asking crazy money for average players.”
That, of course, should hardly have come as a shock. The clubs in the cash-soaked Premier League, with its lucrative broadcasting deals and its seemingly bottomless pit of wealth, had no sooner helped to create soccer’s superheated transfer market than they began to suffer from it.
In England, managers and technical directors and chief executives whisper darkly of an “English tax,” claiming that their counterparts on Continental Europe routinely quote them higher prices than they would a team from Germany, Italy or Spain.
In public, those working in sales or recruitment in Europe dismiss that allegation — two sporting directors toldThe Times in 2017that they work “with one price in mind” for a player, regardless of origin or destination — but there can be little doubt that, at the very least, many see English teams as easy marks.
In part, that is to their credit. According to one executive at a Bundesliga team, selling to a Premier League club is a much more straightforward business than offloading a player to Italy or Spain: The money is invariably paid upfront, one lump sum deposited into your account upon completion of the deal, rather than an installment plan contingent on a host of clauses. It is also rather more palatable to fans: Clubs in Germany, he said, have broadly welcomed English interest in their best players simply because the alternative is seeing them move, with dread predictability, to Bayern Munich.
That is not, however, the limit of its appeal. The evidence is anecdotal but nonetheless compelling: Europe’s clubs see the Premier League as a cash cow, and its member clubs as rather deeper of pocket than they are of thought.
There are, for example, executives who tell stories of hanging up the phone to a Continental team and then immediately doubling the asking price when an English club calls. There are sporting directors who recall scarcely being able to conceal their glee when a Premier League team asks to buy one of their players, or the celebrations when they complete a deal for a vastly inflated price.
And there is the manager who was presented with a tall South American forward by his club’s owner a few years ago and told that it did not matter if the deal worked out, because even if he did not score goals, “an English team will come and buy him for more than we paid anyway.”
There will be plenty, then, who will see the drip-feed of small-beer deals and loans-with-an-option-to-buy that have populated this January transfer window and believe that it is just an exception, something cyclical, that come summer, the Premier League will be showering its largess on Europe once more.
It is worth noting, though, that year-on-year spending last summer was down, too: barely noticeable inthe raw figures— £1.2 billion ($1.57 billion), as opposed to £1.4 billion in 2017 — but in the context of a global market that had been distorted beyond recognition by the fee Paris St.-Germain paid for Neymar, an eye-catching drop.
As unlikely as it sounds, the possibility has to be considered that the Premier League has finally managed to shake its reflex reaction to spend its way out of any problem, to break free of its shopaholism, to overcome its addiction to the short-term high of a lavish transfer.
It would be reductive to attribute that to one cause; it is the result, in all likelihood, of a confluence of factors. Few in soccer, for example, believe that the uncertainty that has infected most British industries because of Brexit has had much of an effect, but it is hard to believe the weakness of the pound against the euro has not given at least some clubs pause.
Then there is the assumption in the Premier League that English soccer’s television boom might have plateaued, and that the next broadcast deal will not deliver the exponential rise in income to which the clubs have grown accustomed. That, too, may have persuaded clubs to become just a little more frugal.
If certain clubs have chosen not to spend — Liverpool and Manchester City for fear of disrupting the delicate harmony they have established, Manchester United because a permanent manager and a technical director must be appointed first — others have been unable to do so.
In the case of Tottenham, with a new stadium to consider, and Chelsea, subject to a FIFA investigation over rule breaches related to young players, those circumstances are bespoke; for others, the issue is much broader. The short-term cost-control measures established by the league’s clubs effectively link increases in a team’s wage bill to growth of its commercial revenue; that Arsenal, for example, has not increased the latter means it is not in a position to throw money at the former.
None of that, though, explains why everyone has been so parsimonious, so uncharacteristically cautious. Yet the trend is widespread enough to suggest that there has been a more fundamental change, that English teams no longer suspect they are being taken for a ride, but know they are, and are determined to put a stop to it.
England for many years stood as a last, defiant bulwark against the idea that recruitment should be overseen not by a club’s manager, but by a technical — or sporting — director. Such an appointment, it was thought, would only undermine the authority of the man tasked with picking the team; in a country that sanctified the memories of Matt Busby and Alex Ferguson and Brian Clough, the manager’s position was inviolable.
That is no longer the case. Of the elite, only Manchester United does not have a technical director, and it is in the process of finding one. Away from Old Trafford, most teams have moved to bring in an individual or a team of people to sift through data, to compile scouting reports, and to assist — to choose a euphemism — the manager with recruitment. The days of a coach being allowed to bring in players on a whim are over.
It is not a perfect system, but it is designed to prevent a club’s having to resort to last-minute purchases, desperate rolls of the dice. It is structured to make clubs less wasteful, more efficient. Its corollary is that it attracts managers more accustomed to working with what they have, or what they are given, rather than demanding money be spent to solve problems that have proved beyond them.
And this is its effect: a handful of unremarkable deals, players brought in to cover a particular need rather than to meet a vague desire, over the course of a month that does not warrant the comic, childlike pomp and ceremony England usually reserves for the transfer window. A dull January is not a cause for concern. It is not a sign of a lack of ambition, but the hallmark of a league that is getting that little bit smarter, that at last is thinking with its head, rather than its pocket.
Follow Rory Smith on Twitter:@RorySmith.



Supported by
On Soccer
ByRory Smith
MANCHESTER, England — As he trudged, wordlessly, away from the field, away from the crowd, away from the burning humiliation, Maurizio Sarri looked like a man who knew. He is not the first in his position to have worn that look, to have made that walk, to sense that, sooner or later, Chelsea has a decision to make.
In these circumstances, that ordinarily means only one thing. Historically, when Chelsea is presented with the choice of whether to fire a manager or not, it tends to act as if it has no choice at all.
Roman Abramovich has fired managers early and fired them late. He has fired them after winning the Premier League title but not the Champions League; he has fired them after winning the Champions League but not the Premier League. He has fired them against the fans’ wishes, and he has fired them to their intense relief. He has fired them for less than being beaten, 6-0, by Manchester City, as Sarri’s Chelsea was on Sunday, and he has fired them for more.
Abramovich has been through 13 permanent managers since he arrived in English soccer in 2003. By this stage of this season, Abramovich — or, more pertinently, those who run Chelsea at his behest — knows the signs. Not just the obvious ones: the back-to-back collapses away from home, firstat Bournemouthand now in Manchester; the inexorable slide down the Premier League table, initially out of the title race and now, usurped by a resurgent Manchester United,out of the Champions League qualifying places.
There are the subtle ones, too: Not once, but twice since the turn of the year Sarri hascriticized his players publicly, questioning both their mentality and their motivation. After a 2-0 defeat to Arsenal last month, he took the unusual step of making his public comments through a translator, just in case he could not find quite the right phraseology as he laid bare his complaints about his squad.
It is a risky strategy, one with the air of a final throw of the dice. It is telling, then, that there has been no visible uplift in performance since Sarri’s public intervention; if anything, things are getting worse. Chelsea has still not scored a Premier League goal away from home in 2019; Sarri’s team was, if anything, somewhat fortunate only to concede six on Sunday.
That, too, does not bode well. When he arrived from Napoli — belatedly, after a long legal tussle between Chelsea and his predecessor, Antonio Conte, that is still not resolved — Sarri warned that his methods were sufficiently bespoke that the players might need some time to adapt to them. There would be, he admitted, teething troubles.
Curiously, they were not immediate. Chelsea hit the ground running. Eden Hazard declared himself delighted to be playing — at last — for a manager who prioritized attacking soccer, who might let him have the “fun” he seeks.
The problems came later, Sarri’s prediction coming good on a satellite delay and the season slowing to a halt as winter set in. It is as if Chelsea’s players have unlearned what Sarri taught them, as if they tried his way for a while and then decided, actually, no, this wasn’t right for them.
This is familiar ground at Chelsea: the manager and the players drifting apart, the words no longer seeming to carry weight, the instructions and ideas not quite cutting through. The same thing happened to José Mourinho, in 2015, and then to Conte, last year. Everybody knows how the story ends; it is not with the players moving on.
Sarri, judging byhis demeanor at the final whistleSunday, recognizes that. This is the sort of result, he will know, that brings with it immediate jeopardy, that provides compelling evidence to support his dismissal. There is, though, an equally convincing case to be made for precisely the opposite, an argument that might make Chelsea pause, even as it begins to prepare the severance check.
It runs like this: Manchester City has what Chelsea has always craved — not just success, but sustained success, consistent success, an unwavering direction. More than that, it has a distinctive, immediately apparent style, an enviable character and identity, a devastating beauty.
It is not that Chelsea has not been successful, of course: Abramovich has brought five Premier League titles to Stamford Bridge, one Champions League crown, and more F.A. Cups than anybody would want, too. Chelsea still outstrips City, the two great transformative clubs of modern English soccer, in terms of honors won.
But Chelsea’s has been a boom-and-bust kind of success, bountiful years followed invariably by fallow ones — one that is the result not so much of a carefully crafted plan but of the harnessing of chaos. It has long seemed fragile, somehow.
City’s is different. City has had a little chaos in its time too, of course — the firings of Mark Hughes and Roberto Mancini, the existence of Carlos Tevez and Mario Balotelli — and its prominence was hard-won, just a little slower than many might have expected given the riches injected into the club by its Emirati benefactors.
But now, a little more than a decade since their arrival, the path is set. City may not win the Premier League title this year — this victory showed just how well Liverpool and Tottenham have done to keep pace with Pep Guardiola’s team for this long — but it will at least come close. It will be the favorite to lift the trophy again next year, and the year after that. It is hard to imagine City slipping to sixth in the near future.
That is a consequence of the amount of money spent on the club, but it is also testament to the way that money has been spent: building a team that is capable of playing the sort of soccer Guardiola preaches, that rival players — and fans — look on with envy, that takes the breath away.
That is what Abramovich has always wanted for Chelsea. It is why he pursued Guardiola for so long, why he appointed André Villas-Boas in 2011, supposedly cut from the same cloth, and why he brought in Sarri last summer.
It is not just a latent aestheticism, it is also an economic argument. The sort of identity that City has brings results; not always, not every year, but over the long term. It helps lure new signings, and it pinpoints who, precisely, those players should be. It staves off the need to fire managers every year or so, to rip up the blueprint, to start again by scouring the transfer market for new players or asking old ones to learn new tricks. A defined identity staves off the turmoil of a poor run of form, of a disappointing season — the difference between a detour and a road to nowhere. It means there can be certainty where otherwise there may be doubt.
The problem, of course, is that it takes time. Even Guardiola, as it turned out, needed a year to shape City into what he wanted it to be, and that was with a team that had been built with him in mind, long before he joined. It requires patience, and understanding. It cannot be conjured over a summer, or over a season. It does not materialize if you keep firing your manager.
That, then, is the choice that Chelsea faces. Fire Sarri, and the boom-and-bust cycle will be prolonged. And perhaps that would be the right decision: Perhaps he is too inflexible to succeed in England; perhaps what he achieved at Napoli cannot be repeated; perhaps his tactics have been worked out by opponents, and he has nothing more up his sleeve.
At some point, though, Chelsea will have to do the opposite. It will have to stick with someone, to accept that time is just as important as money, to go through a fallow year in the hope that bounty follows. It wants what City has. To get it, it must start to do what City does.
Follow Rory Smith on Twitter:@RorySmith.



Supported by
ByAndrew Keh
MARBELLA, Spain — It was just after lunchtime on Tuesday, and Christian Pulisic was facing a rare free afternoon. There was a nap in his plans, for sure, and maybe dinner at a local restaurant afterward.
Pulisic was in this southern Spanish town, bracketed by mountains and the Mediterranean Sea, for a weeklong training camp with his German club, Borussia Dortmund. The sun was shining. Waves skimmed across the beach. Any leisure time was to be cherished.
“This is always fun,” he said about German soccer’sannual winter break, when most teams pack their bags and go in search of a week of warm-weather training abroad. “It’s a week to get away, get some sun, just to change things up a little bit.”
It was also, he acknowledged with a laugh, most likely the last time for a while that he would enjoy this particular type of holiday rest.
Last week, Pulisic announced that he would leave Dortmund — the only professional club he has known — at the end of the season to join Chelsea of the English Premier League. They have winter breaks in Germany;in England, they do not.
It is one of the countless changes, some small and many big, that the 20-year-old Pulisic will encounter in his planned move to the supercharged world of English soccer. It is a situation he says he relishes, a personal milestone in a young career already full of them.
“This was a big dream of mine,” Pulisic said of playing in England, “and I feel this was the right time to make this step.”
Pulisic announced his move himself on social media with an open letter to Borussia Dortmund fans. In it, he declared, with a “heavy heart,” that he would move to London after finishing the remainder of the season in Germany. He referred to Dortmund as “(y)our world-famous club,” the parentheses at once reflecting the deep ties he formed with the team, which signed him at age 16 and is the only professional club he has known, and his looming exit.
Pulisic, who was born in Hershey, Pa., said he took great care to get the wording of the letter right, working with a team staff member to make surea German translation posted at the same timecaptured the message’s nuances — and made clear his deep gratitude to the club and its fans.
“The five years I’ve been at Dortmund have been unbelievable, and I don’t want them to think that I took any of that for granted,” Pulisic said. “It’s not going to be easy for me to leave. I’ll miss it here.”
In the United States, where every turn in Pulisic’s career can be viewed through the prism of what it means for the American national team, news of the transfer generated a splash befitting the country’s best player. The fee Chelsea paid for Pulisic, 64 million euros (about $73 million), was the highest ever paid for an American player,more than triplingthe previous mark.
Pulisic acknowledged the enormousness of the figure, and the expectations that come with it, but he brushed aside the notion that it might burden him.
“In the soccer world, especially now with these numbers you have, who really knows who’s worth what?” Pulisic said. “It is what it is. They wanted me obviously enough to pay that much, but I’m just excited to go there and give my best.”
As transfers go, the deal was a congenial one. Borussia Dortmund had approached Pulisic last summer about extending his contract, which had two years remaining. But Pulisic signaled that he was hoping to move on.
Michael Zorc, the team’s technical director, was disappointed. But he also knew such a day would come: Pulisic had never been shy about his ambition to play in England.
So Dortmund and Pulisic quickly set about moving forward with parallel goals: the club hoping to maximize the value of an attractive young asset still under its control, the player trying to make sure his dream move landed him in the right place.
“There was a lot of trust in these talks,” said Zorc, who said multiple clubs expressed interest in Pulisic and that at least one other Premier League team was willing to pay Dortmund’s final asking price.
His transfer will bring an end to three remarkable years at Dortmund. As a 17-year-old, he broke into the club’s first team and promptly became the youngest non-German to score a Bundesliga goal. But his rise slowed somewhat this season as injuries and the emergence of other young players diminished Pulisic’s playing time. Zorc said he suspected the transfer negotiations had distracted Pulisic this season — “maybe his mind was not so clear” — but hopes the resolution will have a positive effect on the field. Pulisic agrees.
“I feel much, much clearer in my head now that all this is passed,” he said about making the deal public.
Pulisic has five more months to contribute at Dortmund, which leads the Bundesliga with 42 points — 6 ahead of Bayern Munich — through 17 games. After that, he will continue his development at Chelsea, a club not particularly known for nurturing young players.
Still, it was not lost on Pulisic — or his father, Mark, who worked closely with him to evaluate his transfer destination — that Chelsea’s roster situation, with several forwards potentially moving on this summer, could work in his favor.
“Of course that was part of the equation: You look at what a team is going to look like over the next few years,” Mark Pulisic said. “Chelsea will be having some turnover due to the ages of players. But, at the end of the day, that doesn’t matter. When you’re at the highest level of your sport, there’s going to be new competition coming in constantly.”
Mark Pulisic also said the recent narrative that his son’s acquisition by Chelsea had been completed without the knowledge of the club’s Italian coach,Maurizio Sarri— an impression fueled by a television interview in which Sarri implied he had beenleft in the darkabout the move — was “far from the truth.”
“We obviously met with Sarri for quite a long time,” Mark Pulisic said. “We had a chat with him. Christian got to meet with him for a bit, and it just felt good.”
The resulting move will represent a return of sorts for Pulisic, who spent a year with his family in Tackley, England, when he was 7 years old.
His memories from that year are few, but vivid: winning a few tournaments with the youth team he joined,going to professional games with his father, wearing his soccer uniform all day at school, playing on a concrete soccer court afterward for hours.
And he noted one more, rather obvious, benefit to the move: “I’m excited to go be able to speak my first language on a day-to-day basis,” he said, laughing. “Something as simple as that, you don’t notice it, but it’s nice at times.”

Supported by
On Soccer
ByRory Smith
BARCELONA, Spain — In the last eight days, an era has ended, a dynasty has been dismantled, an aristocracy has crumbled and a balance of power that held for a decade has shifted. Change has swept through the Champions League. European soccer’s landscape has been transformed. Not that it was easy to tell from Barcelona last night. Here, where the hosts thrashed Lyon, 5-1, on Wednesday, it all felt the same as ever.
This has been a tumultuous week. The peak came right away: Real Madrid — the team that had held this competition in its thrall, seemingly incapable of not winning it, its opponents apparently dazzled by the mythology of those bright white jerseys — humbled, at home, by a young and vibrant and entirely dismissed Ajax.
The next night, Paris St.-Germain fell, the prize its Qatari backers covet more than any other once again proving elusive, despite the cushion provided by a two-goal lead from the first leg and the insurance policy of a squad assembled at extravagant expense.
There might, ordinarily, have been some solace in being eliminated by one of Europe’s true giants, Manchester United, but that would only have applied if it had been Manchester United’s first team. It was not. It was a patchwork, scratch sort of a side, cobbled together with what little material Manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer had at hand, and it was still enough.
And then, on Tuesday night, that other great cornerstone of European soccer — Atlético Madrid’s defense, so miserly and obdurate — came unstuck. It was generally held to be inconceivable that a team as disciplined and well organized and gnarled as Diego Simeone’s could contrive to throw away a two-goal first-leg lead, but contrive to it did. “It was not a lack of character,” Simeone said in Turin. “Juventus was just better than us.” He has not built his reputation on such acquiescence to defeat.
Wednesday brought one more: Bayern Munich beaten comfortably on home territory by Liverpool, its players and coach, Niko Kovac, admitting that they had deserved no more. For the first time in 13 years, there will be no German teams present on Friday when the draw for the quarterfinals is made. There will be four representatives from the Premier League, for the first time in 10.
No wonder, then, there is a sense that the guard is changing, that this will prove to be the season that bridges two distinct ages. The time of this incarnation of Real Madrid has passed, most obviously, but perhaps that can be said of others among the clutch of superclubs who have, for the last decade, dominated the latter stages of this competition, too.
Bayern is gearing up to rejuvenate its squad. Atlético will lose the player that has best encapsulated its recent history — the grizzled Uruguayan defender Diego Godín — this summer.
As they stumble, the English rise: Manchester City’s destruction of Schalke cemented its place as the favorite to inherit Real Madrid’s crown; Liverpool reached the final last year, and is a more rounded, more durable side this time around. Tottenham beat Borussia Dortmund in both legs, displaying a maturity it has previously lacked. Manchester United, reborn under Solskjaer, has a sense of abandon and fun that makes it dangerous.
The Premier League is, at last, benefiting not only from its vast financial advantage over the rest of Europe, but from its decision — belated, admittedly — to spend a rather greater proportion of that on managers, rather than players.
That is one reading of the situation, anyway. It is not the only one. The Champions League is about teams, of course, and about dynasties and eras and power bases and all of that, but more than anything, it is about players. Indeed, if the dominance of Real Madrid taught us anything, it was that, currently at least, this is a competition defined by individuals more than by systems. And those individuals have not changed at all.
On Tuesday, it was Cristiano Ronaldo, scoring yet another hat-trick to pull Juventus clear of Atlético, to send the Allianz Stadium into raptures, to deliver on the reputation that convinced the Italian champion to spend somewhere north of $100 million on a 33-year-old forward last summer.
And on Wednesday — obviously — it was Lionel Messi, scoring twice, creating twice, and orchestrating Barcelona’s demolition of a courageous, fearless but utterly outgunned Lyon.
For a while, the French visitor discomfited Barcelona; for a while, there was a gentle draft of change here, too, if not quite a full wind. Lyon defended valiantly, and counterattacked with zest, before Barcelona broke the deadlock — a Messi penalty, deftly, almost thoughtlessly, chipped past Anthony Lopes.
For a few minutes in the second half, too, Lyon had hope: Lucas Tousart had made it 2-1; a single strike, a bounce of a ball, would have been enough to add Barcelona to the list of giants toppled this season. It did not last long. Messi soon snatched it away.
His second goal — a delicate shot at the end of one of those mazy dribbles where the ball seems to fall completely, hopelessly under his spell — effectively killed the game, before his two assists, for Gerard Piqué and Ousmane Dembélé, helped a victory bleed into a rout.
But that is not what stood out. What makes Messi so captivating is that it is not just the killer blows that count, but all of the jabs and the thrusts and the parries. It is watching him dance around and skip over and ghost away from tackles. It is the precision of his passing, his unerring ability to make the right choice. Messi rarely tries the spectacular, the unlikely: he does not abuse his status, his talent. He just makes sure he does everything, almost everything, right. His gift has always been his simplicity; that is not fading, not at all, not yet.
Eras do end, and times do change. Identifying when is not an exact science, of course: they tend to drift into each other; there are rarely clean breaks. But perhaps it is fair to say that Real Madrid’s period of dominance is at an end, or that the age of the superclubs has been put on hiatus, or even that Spain’s pre-eminence in European competition (every Champions League title since 2014, and 7 of the last 10) is over.
But it is equally possible that none of those eras existed in the first place, and that instead they were simply consequences of the age of Messi and of Ronaldo, their teams the beneficiaries of their greatness, their ability to decide games and define seasons. That has not changed. Their age is not over yet. Everything might look different. Messi and Ronaldo, though, are still the same.
Follow Rory Smith on Twitter:@RorySmith.



Supported by
ByTariq Panja
ABU DHABI — The message to the D.J. was short and to the point: no Arabic music.
That was the edict from the organizers of the Asian Cup match here on Thursday, an attempt to limit even the opportunity for a flash point in the first soccer match between Saudi Arabia and Qatar since the start of a bitter political feud nearly two years ago. The dispute, andthe Saudi-led blockade of Qatar, has so divided countries in the region that even the prematch music at the tournament is now viewed through that prism.
At other matches at the Asian Cup, the most important soccer event on the sprawling continent, the soundtrack has included music from the participating countries. That was not the case Thursday at the Zayed Sports City Stadium, where the sound system blasted western dance music in an effort to avoid even the risk of inflaming tensions between rival supporters.
In the case of Qatar, that support was limited to a Korean woman, a male student from China and band of Omanis who arrived during the second half after acquiring free tickets. Almost no Qatari fans have traveled to the tournament amid the blockade of the tiny emirate by a Saudi-led group of its neighbors, including the United Arab Emirates, that has made travel extremely difficult — and entry into the U.A.E. close to impossible.
In the end, in front of a stadium that was mostly empty — despite Saudi officials’ handing out free tickets and bussing in fans — Qatar was a comfortable 2-0 winner. The game was largely tension-free until Qatar’s exuberant on-field celebrations led to a minor skirmish with a despondent Saudi striker, one of few players from his team who did not head straight to the dressing room after the referee blew the final whistle.
Coaches from both teams had tried to play down the political cloud that had hung over Thursday’s game since the teams were drawn into the same first-round group months ago. After the game, they steered a similar course, brushing aside any questions related to matters out of their control, and instead focusing on the challenges awaiting them in the knockout rounds. Qatar, which won the group, will face Iraq; Saudi Arabia faces a more difficult game against Japan, a regional power.
“It has nothing to do with football so I won’t give a response,” Juan Antonio Pizzi, Saudi Arabia’s Argentine coach said in response to a question about the off-field tension. Félix Sánchez, Qatar’s Spanish coach, conceded only that hearing his team’s national anthem roundly jeered by most of the fans was a “difficult moment” for his players, but he concluded the game was played in a positive spirit on the field.
Controversy flared outside the lines, however. Local organizers were said to have reacted with fury after a commentator on the Qatar-owned network beIN Sports mentioned the blockade during the live broadcast of an earlier Iran-Iraq game. In response, the Saudi Sports Media Federation released a statement Thursday accusing beIN, which is broadcasting the tournament across the Middle East, of using its exclusive rights to push its political agenda.
The U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia have been in lock step in their opposition to Qatar, and that divide was visible in the stands. Behind the goal where Almoez Ali, the tournament’s top scorer, delivered the first of his two goals for Qatar, three men stood for the entire match, holding aloft two flags, one a Saudi one and the other Emirati, fused together.
Saudi efforts to boost crowd numbers included commandeering two desks at the entrance of the Bab al Qasr hotel, situated yards from the U.A.E.’s presidential palace. There, officials armed with fist-sized stacks of tickets, distributed them for free to fans — whether Saudi or not — with only one request: Support Saudi Arabia.
The efforts largely fell flat. The attendance was declared at just over 16,000, though the actual number of fans appeared far lower. Qatar had almost none: a Qatar soccer federation spokesman said as many as 2,000 fans would have made the trip in normal times. In the end, Qatar had to make do with a small and curious collection of followers that included Janko Yang, a 23-year-old Chinese student who grew fond of Qatar’s soccer team after its under-23 squad visited his hometown, Changzhou, last year.
At the other end of the stadium, Mary Lee, the Korean communications worker who has become relatively well-known around the team, had somehow snagged a seat in the media area. Sporting a silk dress she had made in the maroon and white colors of Qatar’s flag — a direct challenge to rules thatforbid public support of Qatarin the U.A.E. — Lee, 45, vowed to stay at the tournament until her adopted country completes its run. (Asked to change clothing by security officials before she attended the tournament opener between the U.A.E. and Bahrain, Lee has been given dispensation to wear her elaborate outfit only at Qatar’s games.)
The most voluble support, though, came from the group of Omanis who had raced across the city after watching their team clinch berth in the knockout rounds with a 3-1 victory over Turkmenistan. Beneficiaries of the free Saudi tickets, they cheered Qatar’s players as they celebrated their victory. Oman has historically enjoyed a friendly relationship with all its neighbors, and has adopted a neutral role in the Gulf dispute.
“We are like one country, we are one people in the Gulf, and we are cheering for them because they haven’t got fans here,” said Abdullah Moqubuli, 30, before adding that he and his friends would have cheered for Saudi Arabia, too, had the Saudis managed to score a goal.
Sánchez, Qatar’s coach, acknowledged their contribution after the match.
“We appreciated it and we want to thank them because it’s important to us to have also some people with the team,” he said. Qatar’s captain, Hassan al-Haydos, had a similar message for Yang, the Chinese student.
“I’d like to thank him, and tell him to come to the next game,” al-Haydos said.



Supported by
ByCaitlin Murray
LOS ANGELES — When the members of the United States women’s national team negotiated their current collective bargaining agreement with U.S. Soccer in 2017, they secured what seemed to be a significant victory on match bonuses.
In addition to seeing those bonuses increase as much as sixfold for winning certain games, the players no longer needed to win to collect extra pay. For the first time, they would also earn bonuses even if they tied matches against top-tier opponents.
The compromise — ceding some guaranteed compensation from salaries in exchange for higher performance bonuses — helped break a deadlock in negotiations amid a broader fight over pay equity and working conditions, a battle that recentlymoved to federal court. But the players also decided the arrangement was a calculated risk worth taking: Playing for one of the world’s best teams, they view every game as winnable. And with each victory set to be worth as much as $8,500 per player, the bonuses brought the potential for tens of thousands of dollars in extra income.
Yet two years after striking their deal, the players are coping with the reality that winning isn’t always entirely within their control. Experiments with roster selections, starting lineups, tactical formations and even substitutions by Coach Jill Ellis — all within her purview and part of the normal evaluation period between major championships — have led to uneven performances and to frustration within a team that now has large payouts on the line every time it takes the field.
During the two years since the new C.B.A. took effect, in fact, the team has missed out on roughly $1.7 million in performance bonuses — sometimes as much as $200,000 for a single match. For some players, that is as much as $74,250 each. The analysis of bonus pay is based on figurescontained in the team’s C.B.A., which has not been released publicly.
“We have a very bonus-heavy structure, purposefully — we win a lot of games and expect that we’ll win a lot of games,” forward Megan Rapinoe said. “That is part of the balance, understanding that we have a lot of money tied to wins and especially wins against top teams.”
The payments, which for the first time are based on the quality of a given opponent, are worth a maximum of $8,500 per player for a win against the four top-ranked teams in the world, plus Canada, and up to $1,750 for a draw. Against a tier of opponents ranked Nos. 5 through 8, wins are worth $6,500 and draws $1,250. If the Americans beat a team in the lowest bonus tier, likeSunday’s 6-0 thrashing of Belgium, each player on the roster earns a bonus of $5,250.
Lose, though, for any reason, and the players on U.S. Soccer contracts get no bonus at all.
Asked about how experimentation may cost the team short-term results — and thus, bonuses — Ellis said her priority has been looking long term and leaving no stone unturned before the World Cup.
“You want to win,” Ellis said, “but I’d rather get every box checked.”
It is also worth noting that the team isn’t losing more than it has historically; from the end of 2017 to the start of 2019, the United States even went on a 28-game unbeaten streak. But with each result now carrying a higher price tag for each player, the unpredictability created by abrupt experiments by Ellis has been unsettling to some in the locker room.
Ellis’s experiments have varied, including using three-back systems that featured a midfielder, Allie Long, as a center back, or others that pushed wing Mallory Pugh into a central midfield role for the first time against several of the world’s top teams. Once, Ellis asked Crystal Dunn to play three positions in a single match.
When there was a reprieve from such tests during the team’s World Cup qualifying tournament last year — Ellis kept her approach simple as the United States bulldozed through the event — the players noticed.
“You’ve seen a lot more consistency in the lineups and within the roster, so we’re seeing more consistency on the field and on the score sheets,” Alex Morgan said at the time.
But once the Americans clinched their spot in France, the tinkering resumed, and it has continued, even as the World Cup nears.
“Sometimes it’s O.K. to sacrifice results in terms of performance to get the best out of the team and figure out what that is,” Rapinoe said last week, “but we’re probably past that point — or we should be.”
The players were aware of the potential downside of their new C.B.A. even before they ratified it two years ago: A month before the players approved the deal, which retroactively covered all results in early 2017, they had been trounced ata new tournament, the SheBelieves Cup, while struggling to adapt to a new tactical system.
The team lost the SheBelieves Cup again this year when continued tinkering by Ellis resulted in draws against Japan and England. Because the tournament also offers a $5,000 bonus per player for a first-place finish — another carrot in the new C.B.A. — the team missed out on a total of nearly $400,000 in combined bonuses over a single two-week period.
“The paycheck was a little light last month, that’s for sure,” Rapinoe joked last week. “Unfortunately.”
Those paychecks, though, represent the optimistic stance the team took in its C.B.A. negotiations in 2017. With U.S. Soccerunwilling to increase guaranteed salaries, the team sought other ways to increase its compensation and maximize the upside of future success. Unlike their men’s counterparts, however, the women’s playersdo not have large club salariesto fall back on if they get injured,fall out of favoror — in a worst-case scenario —miss out on the biggest bonusesby failing to qualify for the World Cup.
That made the women’s new C.B.A. a stark departure for a team that hadprioritized the stability of guaranteed pay. But it also means that a single poor performance now stings far more than it used to, even if it helps Ellis collect valuable insight.
Ultimately, though, the prize that matters most to the players is winning the World Cup. If they successfully defend their world title this summer, all the dropped results and experimenting will have been worth it.
“If we just breeze through and beat every team, 2-0 or 3-0, we’re not going to learn anything,” defender Becky Sauerbrunn said. “It’s good to get players who don’t have a lot of experience playing time. It’s good to play different formations and see if it works, or not, against the top teams in the world.
“I see a lot of value in the losses, the wins and the ties.”
Supported by
Christelle Kocher unveils a collaboration with Nike, visits an art gallery, goes for a run — and still finds time to bedazzle.
ByAlice Cavanagh
On a Monday afternoon in mid-March, in the mezzanine office of her studio near the Ménilmontant neighborhood of Paris, the French designer Christelle Kocher pauses briefly to re-bedazzle her blue acrylic nails. She carefully pulls a diamanté out of a pile and, using tweezers, daubs it with glue and then applies it to her nail bed. “I have to touch them up, as a few have fallen off,” she says.
Kocher, who founded her eponymous line,Koché, in 2015 — and who also currently serves as the artistic director of the Parisian Métiers d’Art feather and floral embroidery house, Lemarié — is known for her mastery of rich embellishment. At Lemarié, she collaborates with luxury houses such as Chanel, Dior and Valentino, festooning their haute couture garments with feathers. For Koché, she brings her hands-on crafty sensibility to streetwear-inspired ready-to-wear, finessing nylon sports jackets with lace inserts and encrusting catsuits with studs and Swarovski crystals. “I love the culture of couture, and I am fascinated to see how I can continue the story and make it more contemporary with a relaxed attitude,” she says. “To create a new vocabulary between these worlds.”
[Coming later this spring: the T List newsletter, a weekly roundup of what T Magazine editors are noticing and coveting.Sign up here.]

12 Photos
View Slide Show›
Her fall 2019 collection, presented in Paris last month, was perhaps her most apt mash-up yet — a pastiche of iconic sportswear fabrics and racy graphics mixed with evening wear in the form of bias cut gowns assembled from deconstructed soccer jerseys (representing 19 soccer teams all around the world) and bike shorts paired with a sequin-and-satin tuxedo jacket. Some of these looks heralded Kocher’s new collaboration with Nike, a partnership that reached full bloom at a sports-star-studded fashion show last week, at which Nike unveiled 14 national team soccer kits for their sponsored women’s teams, ahead of the Women’s World Cup in Paris this summer. Featured alongside the new team uniforms were 13 one-off looks — dresses, jerseys, track pants and bodysuits — that Kocher designed and spliced together from an assortment of Nike women’s soccer jerseys specifically for the occasion.
An alignment with Nike seems like a natural fit for the designer, who was an avid athlete throughout her teenage years in Strasbourg. She played in the French Junior League for handball from a young age; now, she runs in the nearby Buttes-Chaumont Park almost every day. “Sports really helped me to develop my personality: I was a very shy kid, and it gave me this sense of team spirit,” Kocher says. “I liked the comfort of the clothes as well, and I think that has influenced me a lot.”
Still, high fashion, not sportswear, has been the constant on her CV. After studying at Central Saint Martins, Kocher clocked up experience at Chloé, Dries Van Noten and Bottega Veneta — the latter while also juggling her role at Lemarié, where she has honed her skills in applied crafts. “The history is so interesting because it developed through women who obviously were always working on it from home,” Kocher says of the art form. Though there was a moment when she was tempted by a cleaner aesthetic, she has stayed her course. “I read a lot about the feminist art movement of the ’70s, the work of Louise Bourgeois and Sheila Hicks, and I realized they used craft as a medium for emancipation and empowerment,” she says.
After the Nike World Cup show wrapped at Paris’s Palais Brongniart, Kocher describes how proud she was to have U.S. soccer star Brandi Chastain, the 10-year-old British skateboarder Sky Brown, the German boxing champion Zeina Nassar and the South African track-and-field gold medalist Caster Semenya modeling her garments. “We wanted to bring together different athletes of different nationalities, generations and disciplines, and this is very much the same message I have at my show: this diversity and inclusivity,” she says.
The following day, we’re in the decorous salons of the Mona Bismarck American Center, an exhibition space in Paris, which Nike has taken over for the day. Here, guests are invited to follow Kocher’s lead and customize their own soccer jerseys using an array of hardware, fabrics and patches. The space hums with a sense of excitement — adults given leave to dabble in craft — and Kocher, decked out in a patchwork tuxedo suit with satin lapels from her fall 2019 collection, roams around the room offering up tips. Though she works on 12 collections a year (eight for Chanel and four for her own brand), it is here, when she’s fixated on the minutest details, that she seems most in her element.
Supported by
On Soccer
ByRory Smith
Memory has a tendency to smooth over the edges, to conceal the blemishes, to dust over the pockmarks. Hindsight can be distorted, and history with it: Knowing how something ended creates the illusion it was always going to end that way, a narrative reverse-engineered from the bare facts, happenstance prettified to look like destiny.
And so Real Madrid — the Real Madrid of Cristiano Ronaldo and Luka Modric, of Zinedine Zidane and Florentino Pérez — will be immortalized as the team that was champion of Europe for more than a thousand days, the first team since 1990 to repeat as European champions, the first since 1976 to win the European Cup three times in a row, the winner of four of the last five editions of club soccer’s most prestigious tournament.
It will be remembered as a team that built an empire and defined an era, a team that swept all before it right up until the point that a vibrant, fearless Ajax Amsterdam arrived at the Santiago Bernabéu and brought it all crashing down in one night, the Dutch team’s 4-1 victory in the last 16 on Tuesday sending Real Madrid out and shock waves around Europe.
But though the score line — the extent of the rout as much asthe identity of the team that administered it— was eye-catching, the fact that it felt like an impossibility is, to an extent, a trick of the memory.
Real Madrid’s dominance of the Champions League has been more fragile than the trophy cabinet and history books make it look. Lifting the club’s 10th, 11th, 12th and 13th European Cups was not an inevitability, the manifest destiny of a club that thinks of itself as the king of Europe.
The best example is the first: Real Madrid was a few seconds from losing that final, against Atlético Madrid in Lisbon; only a 93rd-minute equalizer from Sergio Ramostook the game to extra time, and gave Real Madrid a reprieve.
But there are more, far more. In 2016, just a few months into Zidane’s tenure as coach, Real traveled to Wolfsburg for a quarterfinal. It seemed a favorable draw, as close to a gimme as the Champions League offers at that stage. Real Madrid was down, 2-0, within 25 minutes, and secured a place in the semifinals only in the 77th minute of the second leg, with Ronaldo striking a pose as he celebrated his hat trick. Real would win the tournament that year, beating Atlético again in the final in Milan, this time on penalty kicks.
The next year, its progress to the final in Cardiff was stately, serene, but that final hurdle was anything but. Realeventually beat Juventus, 4-1, but if that implies an overwhelming superiority, it did not feel like that inside the Principality Stadium. Indeed, for a time, after Mario Mandzukic had drawn Juventus even in the first half, Real Madrid seemed to be swaying. Its players would later admit that they needed to regroup at halftime.
And then last year, when Real almost conspired to throw away a three-goal lead against Juventus in their quarterfinal, edged past Bayern Munich in the semifinals thanks to a momentary lapse in concentration and ability from the stand-in goalkeeper Sven Ulreich, and then overcame Liverpool — and the even more hapless Loris Karius — in the final in Kiev.
None of that, of course, is to suggest that Real has ridden its luck, or to lessen the significance or glory of its triumphs, or to claim that what happened against Ajax on Tuesday, as the Bernabéu bypassed the rage it usually reserves for defeats and fell straight into grief, was only a matter of time.
Real Madrid deserves its place in history, and its most recent generation merits its reputation as a dynasty team, one perfectly calibrated in talent and temperament to excel on soccer’s most exalted stage. But that history does not need to be airbrushed, to have all trace of blemish surgically removed.
It has been tempting, these last few years, to see all of Real Madrid’s close shaves, its flirtations with disaster, as proof of inherent greatness: a team that knows exactly what to do to win, that always finds something more when it is required, a group of players whose gifts can guide them out of any situation.
That is true, too, though it is not the whole truth. What Wolfsburg and Juventus and Ulreich and the rest prove is that Real Madrid’s grip on the competition was not as viselike as it seemed. It was, at times, only the bounce of a ball away from being loosened entirely. What Ajax did on Tuesday Juventus might have achieved a year ago, but for one moment, one slip, one whistle.
Those blemishes matter, not because they can be deployed as false harbingers of what was to come against Ajax, or because they serve to diminish Real Madrid’s status, but because they act as proof that all those trophies were achieved not because of destiny but because of the players, and coaches, involved.
Real Madrid does not have a divine right to win the Champions League. It was not carried to Lisbon and Milan and Cardiff and Kiev, and to constant glory, by its reputation or its aura or its history. It was carried by Ronaldo, his significance only highlighted by his absence, and his own refusal to countenance defeat, his desperate quest for greatness; and by Zidane; and before him by Carlo Ancelotti, and his subtle, shrewd, unspoken ability to elicit the best from the best.
Real Madrid could easily not have won four of the last five Champions Leagues. At times, it has been hard to explain — particularly in an age when soccer is enthralled by complexity, by philosophies and systems — quite how it has done so. Perhaps that is why it has been so easy to revert to thoughts of a special bond between this club and this competition, to start to believe in destiny. How easily it might all have come apart was illustrated perfectly on Tuesday, how fragile even the supreme can be. That it did not, for so long, is what this team will be remembered for; the picture will not be complete, though, without the pockmarks, the blemishes, the edges, ragged and rough.



Supported by
ByTariq Panja
Organizers of a high-profile summer tournament for world soccer’s biggest club teams have decided to keep Juventus and its star Cristiano Ronaldo away from the United States this year, eliminating the risk of the Portuguese star’s being detained by the authorities as part of a rape investigation in Las Vegas.
While the bulk of the games in the tournament, the International Champions Cup, will take place in the United States as usual, Juventus’s games will be a part of the Asian version of the annual event. Juventus will be joined there —most likely in China and Singapore— by the Premier League teams Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester United.
Ronaldo, a five-time world player of the year, is in his first season in Italy’s top league after Juventus paid more than $114 million to acquire him from Real Madrid last July. Only months after his transfer, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said it had reopened an investigation into accusations by an American woman, Kathryn Mayorga, who said Ronaldo raped her in a Las Vegas hotel room in 2009 and later paid her $375,000 for her silence.
Ronaldo and his lawyers repeatedly denied the rape accusation when it emerged in September; Ronaldo labeled it “fake news” in a video posted on one of his social media accounts, and at one point his lawyersthreatened to suethe German newsmagazine that was the first to publish Mayorga’s accusations. Juventus stood behind its star, too, expressing appreciation for his “great professionalism and dedication” and saying Mayorga’s accusations “do not change this opinion.”
Juventus has a multiyear agreement to play in the International Champions Cup, which is organized by New York-based Relevent Sports. Ronaldo’s legal troubles played a role in shaping plans for Juventus’s participation, according to people familiar with this summer’s schedule, which will be released next week.
A spokesman for Juventus, which is on course to win an eighth straight Italian league championship, said “going east” to Asia was normal after spending recent preseasons in the United States.
While preseason tours are not seen as serious competition, they are vital for teams’ preparations ahead of the new season, and Juventus would have drawn unwanted scrutiny had it traveled to America without Ronaldo, its star attraction.
The case against Ronaldo resurfaced after the German magazine Der Spiegel said it had obtained confidential documents related to the case, and the purported payment by Ronaldo to settle it, from the whistle-blower platform Football Leaks. Around the same time, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said it hadreopened its investigationinto the rape accusation, following up on information it said had been provided by the victim.
Ronaldo, now 33, was a star at England’s Manchester United when he met Mayorga, now 35, at a Las Vegas nightclub in 2009, just before his record-breaking transfer to Real Madrid. He invited her and others to his suite in the early hours of June 13, 2009, she said, where she says he sexually assaulted her.
A number of the documents Mayorga’s lawyers say support her claim were published by Der Spiegel, which also publisheda lengthy interviewwith Mayorga. Ronaldo’s lawyers have questioned the authenticity of some of the documents published by Der Spiegel, but have not denied that Ronaldo and Mayorgahad a sexual encounter, which they contend was consensual.
According to her lawsuit, Mayorga reported an assault to the police later that day and underwent a medical examination, during which evidence was collected in what is sometimes known as a rape kit. The Las Vegas police have acknowledged that Mayorga filed a report and was examined, but the police said she did not name her attacker at the time. The case wasreopenedat Mayorga’s request in September.



The near-collapse of the Polish soccer team Wisla Krakow involved hooligan owners, unpaid bills, police raids and a mysterious savior with promises but no money. Can one of Poland’s greatest players save the day?
Jakub Blaszczykowski warming up with Wisla Krakow before a game last month. He has returned to his roots to, in effect, save the club.CreditCreditMaciek Nabrdalik for The New York Times
Supported by
ByJames Montague
MYSLENICE, Poland — The dark, uneven soil at Wisla Krakow’s training facility in this village 40 minutes south of Poland’s second largest city was frozen solid last month as a few hundred supporters trudged through the snow to greet Jakub Blaszczykowski.
Blaszczykowski, a 33-year-old midfielder, has played in some of soccer’s biggest matches, including the 2013 Champions League final as a member of Borussia Dortmund, two European championships, and a World Cup with Poland’s national team.
But on this January afternoon, Blaszczykowski was a long way from those moments. Instead, he was about to play his first exhibition game since rejoining Wisla Krakow, one of Poland’s most decorated teams. Wisla is the club Blaszczykowski made his name with, and the team he had promised to someday return to when he signed with Dortmund in 2007.
He was not returning to ease into retirement, though, or for a final payday. In fact, the opposite was true: Blaszczykowski, known as Kuba, had come home in an unusual deal in which he agreed to take virtually no money to play and to join with two Polish investorsto lend the club 1.33 million zloty(about $350,000) to cover his new teammates’ unpaid wages.
The Wisla Krakow he rejoined, he knew, was in dire straits, its proud history besmirched after a series of disastrous events involving a hooligan takeover, missing money and a mysterious foreign investor who offered himself as a savior, collected the club’s ownership certificates and then — without producing even a single zloty — disappeared.
Wisla Krakow’s problems were years in the making. But they started to accelerate in 2016, when the team’s longtime owner, Boguslaw Cupial, decided to sell the club.
Cupial had been one of Poland’s postcommunist success stories,earning millionsthrough his cable company, Tele-Fonika. In 1997, he invested some of his fortune in Wisla, transforming the club into an eight-time league champion under his stewardship. But Cupial took a big hit in the 2008 global financial crisis and in 2016 sold the money-losing club to a local buyer.
That buyer promptly flipped the club to TS Wisla, a supporter-friendly umbrella organization that already controlled Wisla Krakow’s other sports teams. The businessman, it turned out, had no money, said Michal Trela, a reporter for Przeglad Sportowy, a Polish sports daily. “After one month,” Trela said, “the supporters bought the club back for 1 zloty” — around 25 cents.
In an age of superrich foreign owners in soccer, a sale that actually gave fans a say in the running of their club should have been refreshing. But at Wisla, the purchase appeared to hand control to a group of soccer hooligans called the Sharks.
“Almost every club in Poland has a problem with hooligans,” said Szymon Jadczak, an investigative reporter for the Polish television network TVN. “But in Wisla, the hooligans were the club.”
The Sharks have a loud, intimidating presence at Wisla’s stadium and in 2015 a group of them made headlines when they were photographed giving the Nazi salute while in Rome to watch Roma play Lazio. Now they were calling the shots at Wisla Krakow, under the leadership of Pawel Michalski, who had served more than six years in prison forthrowing a knifefrom the stands at an Italian player during a UEFA Cup match. Through TS Wisla, Michalski was able to ensure that two people with close connections to the Sharks were put in charge of the club, and contracts for everything from cleaning the stadium to printing the match-day programs were signed with friends and associates at what were viewed as inflated rates. The club, Jadczak said, became a “sort of cash machine” for people connected to the Sharks’ leadership.
When questions were raised, the Wisla president installed after the Sharks’ takeover, Marzena Sarapata, held a news conference to dismiss the claims that the hooligan group effectively controlled the club. But a few months later, an arrest warrant was issued for Michalski, whom the police charged with heading a criminal group and with having involvement in the drug trade. Shortly afterward, Poland’s Central Bureau of Investigationundertook a series of raids in which they arresteddozens of hooligans. Michalski left Poland.
Jadczak’s televised investigation about the takeover and mismanagement at Wisla —broadcast by TVN in September— was the last straw; the club’s top officials resigned, and the city of Krakow persuaded Poland’s soccer authorities to send any money owed to the club to the city instead, to cover unpaid rent at a city-owned stadium.Michalski was eventually arrested in Italy; he will stand trial later this year.
Sarapata did not respond to phone calls or messages from The New York Times but did give an interview to a website owned by the same Polish betting company that sponsors Wisla and denied all the allegations.
Meanwhile, the video clips of hooligans being arrested and of searches at TS Wisla’s headquarters made finding a new investor for the club difficult. And the unpaid players merely fell into line with the other debtors.
Wisla needed a savior.
In December, it thought it had found one. A French-Cambodian businessman named Vanna Ly, who claimed to have extensive investments in soccer clubs around the world, announced he would be purchasing 60 percent of Wisla Krakow. The rest would be owned by Noble Capital Partners, a British investment firm represented by a Swedish businessman, Mats Hartling. The deal was reported to be for 12 million zloty ($3.2 million).
Ly arrived in Krakow to watch a game and began to meet people connected to the club. Invariably, they knew little about him beyond his name and his promise to invest.
“I met Vanna Ly, he’s real, he exists,” said Rafal Wislocki, one of the few team officials untainted by association with the Sharks. “He has ID. I saw this ID. French ID.”
Ly, Wislocki and other club officials took in a 1-0 league defeat against Lech Poznan on Dec. 21. It was the last game before the winter break, and Wisla Krakow, despite the crisis, sat a creditable eighth in the 16-team Polish league.
Ly made clear that he was not impressed with the standard of play, Wislocki said, but at least sounded as if he knew how to run a soccer club. “He knew the answer when I asked difficult questions,” Wislocki said.
The purchase contract was signed, though in hindsight, team officials said, even then something was awry: Despite claiming to control millions of dollars, Ly arrived in Krakow on a budget airline, and when he was spotted leaving Krakow’s city hall after a meeting, he attempted to hide from reporters under a black umbrella.
The bulk of the money to pay off the team’s debts was due a few days later, but it never arrived. At first, Ly told Wisla officials that his phone had been stolen, preventing him from sending the cash. Later, they were told that Ly hadhad a heart attack on his private jet as it flew to New York.
Ly was never heard from again. Despite repeated attempts by The Times to contact him by email and by phone, he did not respond. After initially hanging up the phone, Hartling emailed a one-line reply: “Ly is a criminal who will be pursued accordingly.”
Asked about Ly in a text message, Adam Pietrowski, the player agent who had brought Hartling to Wisla and was briefly club president, replied with an emoji: a sad face with a Pinocchio nose.
By then, Wisla Krakow had bigger problems than a missing investor. European soccer’s midseason transfer window would open Jan. 1, and with the club’s license to play suspended because of its grim financial state, and with its unpaid players likely to depart, Wisla had only a few weeks to stabilize its affairs.
Wislocki, who had successfully run the team’s youth academy, was appointed club president. Blaszczykowski, out of favor at his German club, Wolfsburg, suggested he would consider a return. In January, he and the two investors he had joined forces with delivered a vital infusion of cash to cover the team’s back wages. Still, he delayed his full commitment to play until the restoration of Wisla’s license was assured.
In the end, Wisla sold eight members of its squad in January, but the payment from Blaszczykowski, as well as the promise of playing alongside a player revered in Poland, stemmed the hemorrhaging of talent.
“Kuba gives us belief that we can make this club great again,” Wislocki said.
A few days after his first exhibition match, Blaszczykowski trotted onto the freezing field in Myslenice again as a large crowd sung his name. If anything, it was even colder. Again Wisla lost, again by 3-2, and again a crowd gathered by the entrance to the training ground in hopes of taking a photograph with Kuba.
As the second half of that game began, word arrived that Wisla’s most urgent crisis was over: The league had restored the team’s license, allowing it to sell tickets to its remaining games. Wislocki announced that the club was selling 5 percent of its shares to fans; in less than 24 hours, the offer raised 4 million zloty (a little more than $1 million). Blaszczykowski eventually signed his contract, although league rules prevented him from playing for free. Instead, he’ll donate his 500 zloty minimum wage ($130) to a local children’s home. And he finally made his league debut in a 2-0 defeat against Gornik Zabrze last week. A new owner still needs to be found — without one, said Trela, the journalist, “it will be impossible to get a new license for next season” — but Wisla is breathing a little easier.
Its coach, the former Poland international Maciej Stolarczyk, who took the job last summer, has known only chaos and financial crisis at the club. He, too, had met Ly, whose bold promises, he said, had been magnified by the Polish news media.
“They said we will be another Manchester City in Poland!” Stolarczyk said, laughing. “But I want to say the team didn’t believe everything they were told.”
His only concern now is the second half of the season. Having one of Poland’s best players is a bonus, he said, but he is acutely aware of the weight that Blaszczykowski carries.
“Everyone will be looking at him, everyone will be talking about him, and also all the rivals will try to stop him,” Stolarczyk said. “So our task is to try and protect him.”
Long after the final whistle of his first game back, Blaszczykowski did not seem to need protection. He was standing stone-faced as he signed every shirt that was handed to him and posed for every selfie.
He was why parents had brought their children out in the biting cold to press against the fence, to squint into the low winter sun. He was why Wisla fans had hope again.
“We love Kuba,” one man said. “Kuba is our hero.”
Supported by
ByAustin Ramzy
The body of the Argentine soccer striker Emiliano Sala was recovered from the plane that crashed into the English Channel last month, the British authorities said late Thursday.
The body, recovered a day earlier from the channel, was identified by the coroner for the County of Dorset, England, the police said ina statement. The police said that the families of Mr. Sala and the pilot, David Ibbotson, had been informed.
“Our thoughts remain with them at this difficult time,” the police said. Mr. Ibbotson was the only other person who was on the small plane.
The recovery crews from the British Air Accidents Investigation Branch tried to retrieve the wreckage itself, but bad weather forced them to give up, investigators said in an earlier statement. Privately funded search teams had also joined the search for Mr. Sala and Mr. Ibbotson.
Mr. Sala, 28, who had recently transferred to the English Premier League club Cardiff City from Nantes in the French league, was flying to Cardiff from Nantes on Jan. 21when the single-engine, propeller-driven Piper Malibu vanished.
Mr. Sala hadsent an audio message from the planeto a group of friends on WhatsApp, saying that he was “so afraid” and that the plane “seems like it’s falling to pieces.”
Theauthorities called off a searchon Jan. 24.But efforts resumedafter more than 371,000 euros, about $424,000, was raised from donors, including some of soccer’s most prominent players.
On Sunday, a shipwreck hunter, David Mearns, announced that his team on the ship FPV Morven had found the plane. Another ship, the Geo Ocean III, used a remotely operated vehicle to film the wreckage, and images of the registration number on the fuselage confirmed that it was the missing plane.
Mr. Sala had been one of the leading strikers in France this season. Cardiff City, which has one of the Premier League’s lowest goal totals, had signed him in an effort to improve its poor offensive production.
The Welsh team agreed to pay 15 million pounds, or more than $19 million, to acquire Mr. Sala. Nantes has demanded payment of the first installment of that transfer fee, which is to be paid over three years, theBBC reported on Wednesday.


Supported by
Several current and former coaches, some with national titles and many with ties to U.S.C., were named in a federal indictment Tuesday.
ByAndrew Das,Marc TracyandNaila-Jean Meyers
The coaches led soccer teams and sailing teams, guided water polo champions and budding volleyball stars. At least two had won N.C.A.A. championships. A third gave Michelle Obama and her daughters tennis lessonsfrom his post at Georgetown.
The coaches charged Tuesday in a massive federalcollege admissions fraud scandalwere some of the most prominent in their fields. But it was their apparent willingness to exploit their access to the admissions process at several exclusive universities that has them facing federal charges.
Who are they? Several had deep associations with the University of Southern California, where Donna Heinel, a senior athletic department administrator, is accused of playing a central role in the scandal. For nearly a decade, Heinel had overseen the admissions of athletes into U.S.C., working closely with several of the current and former Trojans coaches who have been indicted. She was fired Tuesday.
Here is a brief look at the current and former coaches identified by a federal complaint.
U.S.C. water polo coach
Vavic won 16 national titles at U.S.C., more than any coach in university history (10 in men’s water polo, the most recent coming in December, and six in women’s water polo). Hewas fired Tuesdayafter he was arrested in connection with the admissions scheme. He had coached the women’s team, currently ranked No. 1 and the defending national champion, since 1995 and had been the sole head coach of the men’s team since 1999. A 15-time national coach of the year, Vavic was named the Pac-12 Conference’s “coach of the century” for water polo in 2015.
According to the indictment, the co-conspirators in the admissions fraud paid $250,000 to an account that financed the U.S.C. water polo program, and in return Vavic recommended two students as recruits to the water polo team. The ringleader of the scheme, William Singer, known as Rick, is said to have paid the private school tuition for Vavic’s children through one of his company’s charitable accounts “under the guise of a fabricated scholarship.”
Former Georgetown tennis coach
According to the indictment, Ernst, known as Gordie, earned more than $2.7 million between 2012 and 2018 in payments that were falsely labeled “consulting” fees. He “designated at least 12 applicants as recruits” for Georgetown’s tennis teams, court papers said, “including some who did not play competitively.” One such player, listed in the complaint, was encouraged to make playing tennis part of her application essay and claimed to be a top-50-ranking player in the U.S.T.A. for junior girls, which was not true. She was accepted at Georgetown in 2016.
A spokeswoman for Georgetown said Tuesday that the university had fired Ernst in December 2017 after an internal investigation found he had violated university rules concerning admissions. Ernst, a native of Rhode Island who is in the New England Sports Hall of Fame, was named the women’s tennis coach at the University of Rhode Island last August. The university placed himon administrative leaveon Tuesday.
Wake Forest volleyball coach
Ferguson has been the women’s volleyball coach at Wake Forest since 2016. Before that, he coached the men’s team at U.S.C., winning 150 matches and leading the Trojans to three N.C.A.A. Final Fours. He was the American Volleyball Coaches Association coach of the year in 2009 and 2012. His success has not continued at Wake Forest, where he was 22-41 in his first two seasons. After Tuesday’s charges were unsealed, Wake Forest announced that he has been placed on administrative leave. Ferguson is accused of accepting $100,000 from Singer in 2017 to help Singer’s client’s daughter, who had been wait-listed by the school, gain admittance to Wake Forest as a volleyball recruit.
U.C.L.A. men’s soccer coach
Salcedo has been U.C.L.A.’s men’s soccer coach since 2004. The Bruins are one of the nation’s top programs annually, and Salcedo has produced dozens of players who have gone on to play professional soccer. A former All-American at U.C.L.A. who had a brief career in Major League Soccer and other leagues, he has been a member of the Bruins’ soccer program as either a player, assistant coach or head coach for two decades. He is accused of helping two students gain admission to U.C.L.A. as student-athletes in exchange for $200,000.The Los Angeles Timesandothersreported that he had been placed on leave Tuesday.
Former U.S.C. women’s soccer coaches
Khosroshahin won a national championship in his first season with the Trojans in 2007, when he was named national coach of the year, but he was fired in 2013 after missing the N.C.A.A. tournament three years in a row. U.S.C. went 8-10-2 in his final season; he was 82-53-15 over all.
Janke joined Khosroshahin’s U.S.C. coaching staff as an assistant after playing for him in his previous job at Cal State-Fullerton. A biography of her at the Geffen Academy, a private school in Los Angeles for students in grades 6 through 12, lists her asthe physical education department chair. A previous announcement hailed her hiring as the head of the school’sgirls soccer program.
In the indictment, Singer is said to have contributed $350,000 a private soccer club run by Khosroshahin and Janke in exchange for their suggesting four children of Singer’s clients as recruits.
Khosroshahin and Janke were also asked to create misleading recruiting profiles and to serve as references for students who were not competitive soccer players in order to help them gain admission to other colleges.
Former Yale women’s soccer coach
A third cooperating witness in court papers was an unnamed person whose description closely matches Meredith, who served as Yale’s women’s soccer coach from 1995 through late last year. Meredith was also a participant in the scheme, according to court filings. Meredithresignedas Yale’s coach in November after a disappointing season, but also after, the authorities said Tuesday, he had accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars of payments to facilitate the admission of a non-soccer-playing soccer recruit to Yale. When he stepped down after last season, Meredith told the university that “it is time to explore new possibilities andbegin a different chapter in my life.” A month later, he was elected tothe Connecticut Soccer Hall of Fame.
Stanford sailing coach
Vandemoer is accused of taking financial contributions to hischampionship-winning sailing programfrom an intermediary in exchange for agreeing to recommend two prospective students for admission. “Neither student came to Stanford,”Stanford said in a statementTuesday. “However, the alleged behavior runs completely counter to Stanford’s values.” Stanford said Vandemoer had been fired.
Texas men’s tennis coach
The Longhorns have one of the top programs in the country, having reached the N.C.A.A. tournament every season since Center took over in 2000. He was placed on administrative leave Tuesday after being accused of accepting $100,000 from Singer in 2015 in exchange for recruiting a student who was not a competitive tennis player. According to court papers, the student’s application to Texas said he played one year of tennis as a freshman, but his other activities included being manager of his high school basketball and football teams. The student withdrew from the tennis team shortly after beginning classes at Texas.
An earlier version of this article misstated William Ferguson's position at U.S.C. He was the men's volleyball coach, not the women's volleyball coach.
Marc Tracy has covered college sports for The Times since 2014. Previously he worked at Tablet Magazine and The New Republic.@marcatracy
Supported by
On Soccer
ByRory Smith
LONDON — At the start of February, Lionel Messi broke another record. When Messi converted a penalty against Valencia, a few minutes before halftime, it was his 20th Liga goal of the season. He had reached that mark every year for the last 11 years. No player had done that before.
It is a fairly common occurrence, of course, Messi breaking a record. He broke two others in December: reaching the most wins for Barcelona, overtaking Xavi Hernández, and becoming the first player to score 10 Liga goals in 13 consecutive seasons. November, by contrast, was quiet: He only broke one, for Champions League goals scored for a single club.
Sometimes, he etches his name on significant milestones — highest scorer in Spanish history; most goals in a calendar year — and sometimes his feats seem more like statistical quirks, curious pieces of trivia: no player has scored two goals in more La Liga games than Messi, for example. All of the records, though, serve as testament to his greatness. Each one offers further proof of the consistency of his brilliance.
And yet the more records he breaks, the more remarkable his career becomes, the less impact each new mark has. Messi’s scaling heights previously thought unimaginable, surpassing marks once deemed indelible, is now so frequent as to be mundane. Messi rewriting the history books is the natural order of things. His excellence has been normalized.
What he has done, in effect, is a sort of impish, Argentine equivalent to what, in politics, is known as shifting the Overton Window; in public discourse, it refers to the gradual process of taking concepts previously considered unthinkable and making them first seem feasible and then, finally, ordinary.
The Messi effect works on the same lines. Before he and Cristiano Ronaldo made a habit of scoring unfathomable numbers of goals, it was assumed that such tallies were impossible. The more they have done it, the more they have made it seem attainable. The more attainable it seems, the less special it looks.
If the worst consequence of the phenomenon, for Messi, is that his splendor is occasionally a little underappreciated — something that is more of a loss for those watching than it is for him — for others, suffering the same genius fatigue, the consequences can be more severe.
This week, Tottenham faces Burnley, Chelsea and Arsenal in the Premier League. It must, most likely, win all three games to keep within touching distance of Manchester City and Liverpool in England’s rocket-fueled title race.
So fine are the margins that even a single slip may prove fatal, and once again condemn Spurs Manager Mauricio Pochettino and his team to accusations that they lack the cutting edge, the carat mass, to shine among the elite. Pochettino, like Messi, will suffer because of the standards he has set.
It is worth considering, though, the nature of Tottenham when Pochettino took over in 2014: that Tottenham was a team deep in the shadow of its two fiercest rivals, Arsenal and Chelsea; one that only occasionally featured in the Champions League; one that few, even among its most ardent fans, considered genuine contenders for the Premier League title.
Over the course of Pochettino’s almost five seasons at the club, all of that has been transformed. Tottenham is now, certainly, a better team than either Arsenal or Chelsea. It has become a fixture in the Champions League, with a place in this season’s quarterfinals well within its grasp.
Since Pochettino took charge, only one team — Manchester City — has won more points in the Premier League. Twice, Tottenham has mounted sustained challenges for a first English championship since 1961. This season, it has managed to cling to the coattails of City and Liverpool, both of whom have more points at this stage of the season than all but a handful of teams in history.
Given those circumstances, the season Pochettino has overseen thus far may rank as his finest yet. When the transfer window closed on Jan. 31, Tottenham became the first team in Premier League history not to add a single player over the course of an entire campaign.
If that parsimony was extreme, it was not out of character: Since Pochettino arrived in May 2014, Tottenham has spent barely half of the amount lavished on Manchester City and Manchester United’s squads. The sale of midfielder Mousa Dembélé in January meant that, since Pochettino arrived, the club has invested less than $30 million, net, in the transfer market.
On several occasions in recent months, that has seemed set to curtail the club’s ambitions. Pochettino has had to navigate several weeks without Harry Kane and Dele Alli, the lodestars of his attack, because of injury. In January, he lost Son Heung-min, the captain of South Korea’s national team, to the Asian Cup, too.
The club continues, unhappily, to play its home games at Wembley, after a series of delays on the completion of its new stadium, now likely to be available in April at the very earliest, though even Pochettino seems to suspect even that target is ambitious. He suggested earlier this month that it would be “tough” to play there before the start of next season.
That Tottenham is still there, then, its breath on the necks of Manchester City and Liverpool yet again, is a remarkable feat. And yet, just as with Messi, it does not always feel as though it is celebrated as such.
Pochettino, like Messi, has changed the parameters of a conversation. He has made the extraordinary ordinary. It was previously unthinkable that Spurs might be title contenders. Now, it is not just accepted but almost expected. Indeed, the question more often posed to Pochettino is whether his team is falling short because it does not yet have a trophy to show for its progress.
There is some validity to that question. As the Sky Sports commentator Jamie Carragher pointed out earlier this season, when this Tottenham team comes to be remembered, fans will not take into account where it played its home games or how much was spent to reinforce it; they will simply ask what it won. But it is hard to avoid the feeling that its relevance is overplayed.
Soccer, like all sports, is about the creation of collective memories. That is why England continues to hold its twin cup competitions in such high esteem, though winning them is often not enough to save a coach’s job or build a player’s reputation or slake a fan’s thirst for success. It is why Pochettino’s bullish disregard for them — in words, if not always in actions — strikes such a discordant note among many commentators.
But soccer is also about pride, and status. What Pochettino has done is restore both to Tottenham. That is not some meaningless intangible: It has concrete consequences, both in the stadium the club is building, a monument to its new reality, and the players it will, at some point, be able to attract there.
Pochettino has not won anything, but he has created a club that expects — and is expected — to do so in the future. He has fundamentally altered the fabric of the place that he found. He has made what was once unthinkable entirely feasible, and he has done it so often that his brilliance has become mundane. It is easy to be fooled into thinking this is normal. It is not, and the best measure of how extraordinary it is may well be how ordinary it seems.
Follow Rory Smith on Twitter:@RorySmith.



Supported by
On Soccer
ByRory Smith
MANCHESTER, England — That sinking feeling, that sense that it was all happening again to Paris St.-Germain, might have set in a couple of weeks ago, when Neymar limped off a field in Strasbourg, his face crumpled with tears, the fifth metatarsal in his right foot broken.
Or it might not have come until a little later, until last weekend, until the point when Edinson Cavani, wincing from the pain in his hip, was told he would not be able to return to the field at the Parc des Princes for the second half of a Ligue 1 game against Bordeaux.
Or maybe it was not the injuries, but the composite effect of them: Maybe it was the slow drift in P.S.G.’s performances these last few weeks — their first domestic defeat of the season, at Lyon; being taken to extra time in a cup game by Villefranche, a third-division team; squeezing past Bordeaux, once Cavani had gone.
It all pointed in the same direction: that just as the mercury was rising and thoughts were turning once again to the Champions League, the most ambitious club project in Europe, the team that has distorted the transfer market and — allegedly — bent the rules in its relentless pursuit of success in this competition, was splintering and fracturing and crumbling once again.
Suddenly, it felt as if a meeting in the last 16 with Manchester United was rather more daunting than it had seemed when the draw was made, back in December, back before Neymar’s tears, back before Cavani’s grimace, back before Villefranche.
That was partly because of P.S.G.’s travails, of course, but partly because United looked reinvigorated. More than that, in fact: United looked like a completely different team, with completely different players, the gray clouds of José Mourinho’s moody, miserable tenure replaced by the unending sunlight of Ole Gunnar Solskjaer.
Solskjaer had not lost a game as United manager before Tuesday’s visit from P.S.G. He had restored Paul Pogba — a virus, in Mourinho’s estimation — to his position as one of the world’s finest midfielders. Anthony Martial and Marcus Rashford were thriving, too.
Old Trafford had its smile back, a predator’s grin, ready to become the latest place where P.S.G.’s finest-laid plans fell to pieces, just as they had at the Bernabeu last year, and at the Etihad and the Nou Camp in the years before that.
Old glory would, once again, trump new money; an elimination from a knockout soccer contest would once again become a morality play about the dangers of consumerism, the perils of knowing the price of everything and the value of nothing.
And then, just when it was happening again, it did not. P.S.G. produced a performance not just of class but of cunning and courage, and swatted Manchester United aside, 2-0.
Presnel Kimpembe and Kylian Mbappé — this great international vision, this expression of Qatari soft power, delivered by two boys fromParis’s sprawling banlieues— scored a goal each, and P.S.G. might feel slightly disappointed not to have left with more. Later on, Pogba — against his hometown club — was sent off, meaning United’s standout performer will miss the return leg next month. With his exit, all reasonable hope of a turnaround in Paris departed, too.
As it turned out, the harbinger of what was to come here was not Neymar’s injury, or Cavani’s, or any of the other feints and misdirections offered by P.S.G. in recent weeks. Instead, it was in November, in the aftermath ofthe French champion’s victoryagainst Liverpool in the opening stage of this competition.
It was then, as his players danced on the field, celebrating a victory in a group-stage game — one high on tension and fraught with traps, admittedly, but still a group-stage game — that Thomas Tuchel, P.S.G.’s German coach, saw something.
His team had not just beaten Liverpool for talent, not relied on Neymar’s virtuosity or Mbappé’s breathtaking speed; it had beaten them for effort, too. It had dug in and ground it out. It had proved, against a dogged, determined opponent, that it could fight, too. “Now, we feel something,” Tuchel said.
Those were the characteristics P.S.G. fell back upon Tuesday night in Manchester: Thiago Silva, among the club’s first wave of superstar signings, all the way back in 2012, towering in defense; Marquinhos, deployed to stifle and to shadow Pogba, dominant in midfield; the bustle of Marco Verratti, the hustle of Ángel Di María.
Those are the traits that teams need to overcome these challenges, to shine on these stages, to thrive in this competition, just as much as they need star power and sublime skill. Those are the traits that, in previous years, P.S.G. has not been able to call on. Itcowered against Real Madridlast season, as if waiting meekly for its fate. It melted away against Barcelona the year before that, unable or unwilling to resistas Neymar and Lionel Messi ran riot.
It would be dangerous to suggest that this victory provided a blueprint for P.S.G.’s future, to use this exception to prove some wayward rule. This is not proof that P.S.G. is better without the world’s most expensive player, or evidence that a project built on and seduced by star power is innately flawed.
Neymar improves every team he is part of; if Tuchel harbors designs to win the Champions League, he will need the Brazilian back. Much the same goes for Cavani, as diligent and spirited a forward as might be found. Better teams than Manchester United, of which there are several, would pose more questions, and find more answers.
That Tuchel found a way to win in their absence, though, suggests that something has shifted, that the P.S.G. project has reached another stage, that after years of searching for a way to win even when all seems arrayed against them, they have found what Tuchel, that night in November, called a “new culture.” Now, they feel something. All that remains is to make sure that Neymar, and Cavani, feel it, too.
Follow Rory Smith on Twitter:@RorySmith.



Supported by
On Soccer
ByRory Smith
MANCHESTER, England — The movement is so slick that it seems almost automatic, a machine whirring to life. In the best possible way, Manchester City’s players become thoughtless, operating on muscle memory. They do not need to pause, to think: They know.
Fernandinho has the ball, midway inside Arsenal’s half. To his left, Raheem Sterling makes a run, darting outside Stephan Lichtsteiner. Fernandinho does not need to look: He knows where Sterling is.
Now Sterling cushions the ball, perfectly, back to Ilkay Gundogan, a few yards behind him, but his work is not done. He dashes forward again, in expectation rather than hope.
Gundogan flicks the ball over Arsenal’s defensive line, disorientated, straight back to Sterling. It looks like creativity, like Gundogan is extemporizing, because that is what we want it to be, because that would make it somehow magical, but the chances are it is exactly the opposite: He will have played that ball, and Sterling will have made that run, a thousand times in training, until the timing is perfect and Pep Guardiola is satisfied.
Only a few seconds have elapsed, but the trap has been set. Sterling is in, down the left side of Arsenal’s penalty area, and Sergio Agüero knows where he has to go, where he is meant to be. By now it seems, from the crowd, to be effortless, almost telepathic, but it is mechanical, really. Agüero has materialized at the far post. The ball is at his foot.The goal is open.
That was the second of the three goals that Agüero, and Manchester City, scored in a 3-1 victory against Arsenal on Sunday, though it was not especially different in style fromthe firstorthe third: The only real variation, the only distinguishing mark, was how he chose to convert. He put the first past Bernd Leno with his head, the second with his foot, and the third, though the referee Martin Atkinson did not spot it, with the help of his arm.
There was a sense of inevitability about all three of them, a dread predictability. Not because Arsenal — with its new manager and its handful of new players and its new dawn after years of elegant decline under Arsène Wenger — is still, at heart, the most generous and most accommodating of opponents, but because that goal is now City’s hallmark, its calling card.
This has been a challenging week for Manchester City. Guardiola kept his players in their changing room for some time after a defeat at Newcastle United on Wednesday, picking over the flaws that had led to their downfall. It had been a fourth defeat in nine league games; something was amiss.
Even first-place Liverpool’s failure to take advantage of the slip-up 24 hours later, Jürgen Klopp’s team drawing at home against Leicester City, brought little solace. “We said that we did not recognize our team,” Guardiola said. “The players felt it, too. We did not recognize what we were.”
What they needed, then, was a reassertion of identity, and there is no better expression of that identity — of what this City team is, or of what its manager would like it to be — than that second goal. “We have scored a lot like that,” Guardiola said after the game.
That is something of an understatement. No team in the Premier League has scored more goals from cutbacks this season, according to the analytics company Opta; 19 of City’s 66 goals this year have been scored from inside the 6-yard box. City scores that goal so often that it has become its default setting. Here, it felt almost like it was a comfort blanket, this City team’s artful, devastating version of going back to basics. Guardiola’s players do not have to think to score that goal. They can do it on autopilot.
That was true during the manager’s time at Barcelona and at Bayern Munich, too, of course: More than City’s goal, it is Guardiola’s. Perhaps, in time, just as a chipped penalty has become known asa Panenkafor the man who made it famous, a far-post tap-in from a low cross will take his name.
He has done more than anyone else, after all, to evangelize its effectiveness: According to his journalistic confidante, Martí Perarnau, Guardiola has always agreed with his erstwhile Barcelona teammate Miquel Soler that a “hard, low cross across the 6-yard box is a goal half-scored.”
It is the goal he encouraged Jordi Alba and Dani Alves to help create at Barcelona, though neither needed much encouragement. It is the goal he schooled Arjen Robben and Franck Ribéry in assisting in Germany, his only acquiescence to the differing quality of the two squads being that he allowed the latter pair to cross the ball in the air, rather than along the ground — sometimes.
It is the goal that has characterized City’s success, too, since he arrived here: 57 times, one of his players has scored from inside the 6-yard box in his time in England. It is as if Guardiola has discovered a glitch in soccer’s software, a gamer who has found a cheat that works every time.
Unai Emery, the Arsenal manager, would have known that is what Guardiola would try to do, what City would try to do. He is, after all, a compulsive viewer of forthcoming opponents, a dogged analyst, given to spending hours poring over video.
In the last few days, Emery would have seen that goal countless times, the footage taking on a metronomic, hypnotic quality as City worked the ball out wide, fired in a low cross, over and over, again and again. He would have drilled his defenders in how to cope with it, in what to look for, in anything and everything that might work.
But that is the thing: Once the machine is working, there is little that can stand in its way. It is the most predictable goal in English soccer, but that does not seem to diminish its effectiveness.
“They have the quality, the capacity,” Emery said, when asked if there is anything that can be done to stop Guardiola’s teams from performing their signature piece, casually idling through their greatest hit, whether knowledge can be power. “It can be hard to stop that.”
Follow Rory Smith on Twitter:@RorySmith.




“I’m not an act,” the Los Angeles Galaxy’s star striker declared as he began his second season in Major League Soccer. “I am the real deal.”
CreditCreditJessica Chou for The New York Times
Supported by
ByScott Cacciola
LOS ANGELES — Zlatan Ibrahimovic, after a quiet off-season with his family in Sweden, returned to training camp with the Los Angeles Galaxy this winter to find bulldozers and construction crews at work on a new plaza outside the team’s stadium.
As a part of the refurbishment, the club will be unveiling a statue of David Beckham, a seminal figure in the evolution of Major League Soccer, in the plaza this weekend. Ibrahimovic, who, at 37, is nearing the age at which soccer legends are memorialized for the trophies they won and the goals they scored, said he was happy for Beckham, a former teammate of his at Paris St.-Germain and a two-time M.L.S. Cup winner with the Galaxy.
Could Ibrahimovic envision the team building a statue for him someday?
“We’re discussing,” he said in an interview after a recent practice. “Not one — two. One in the front, one in the back. And one in the middle of the stadium. So, three!”
Ibrahimovic, the iconic striker, tends to serve up his brand of supreme confidence with a disarming smile and a subtle wink, and suddenly you feel as if you are in on the joke. Except it is not a joke. Not really. Ibrahimovic seems sincere about all the stuff he says: the boasts about his greatness; the odes to his goal-scoring prowess; the comparisons to lions and gods; the third-person soliloquies about all things Zlatan.
Yet no matter how extreme or insightful or hilariously bold his claims become, his delivery — always with a wink and a smile, not to mention the résumé to back it all up — somehow helps it go down more easily.
Consider his line of grooming products, which includes deodorant, liniment balm and tattoo enhancer cream. Ibrahimovic said he had personally helped develop several types of cologne —Zlatan Black Nomad, anyone?— and that he guaranteed results.
“Oh, you will feel powerful, don’t worry,” he said. “They don’t need to see you. They just need to smell you.”
In the same way, one gets the sense Ibrahimovic was not joking when he pledged to “break every record in M.L.S. this season” at a recent fan event. (Asked if he had any particular records in mind, he replied, “All of them.”) And he was absolutely not joking when, upon signing with the Galaxy last March, he boughta full-page advertisement in The Los Angeles Times.
“Dear Los Angeles,” it read. “You’re welcome.”
A few months later, when LeBron James announced that he, too, was moving to Los Angeles, to sign with the Lakers, Ibrahimovic welcomed him viahis Instagram page.
“Now L.A. has a God and a King,” he wrote.
Ibrahimovic — who, to be clear, was the god in that situation — joined the Galaxy last year after star turns with European powerhouses like Juventus, Barcelona and Manchester United. Joining the Galaxy, he finished with 22 goals in 27 games but fell short of leading the team to the postseason, a disappointment for a player who has added to his collection of championship trophies — more than two dozen at last count, in five European leagues — nearly everywhere he has played.
So Ibrahimovic has created a new challenge for himself this season: to dominate on a new continent with a surgically repaired knee and countless skeptics — real or imagined — fueling him.
“The age, the knee, not like before — all this baloney,” said Ibrahimovic, who used a more colorful word than baloney. “They trigger me.”
Ibrahimovic’s stateside odyssey was a long time coming. He recalled making his first trip to America in 1999, as a 17-year-old prodigy with Malmo, his hometown club in Sweden, for a summer youth tournament near Minneapolis. He visited Los Angeles about 10 years later, at the height of his powers, for a training camp with the Italian club Inter Milan. The team worked out twice a day, which left little time for sightseeing.
“You see the football field, you see the hotel and you see the bus,” Ibrahimovic said. “I mean, I heard that a lot of characters live in Los Angeles, a lot of personalities — actors, singers, all of this. And I was curious: Why do people live here?”
He investigated when he spent a month at the Beverly Hills Hotel with his wife and their two sons before he joined Manchester United in 2016. They enjoyed the weather and the easygoing vibe. “I think the sun brings energy, brings happiness,” Ibrahimovic said.
When he sustained a serious knee injury with Manchester United the following year, he got a rare sense of his own sporting mortality — and it persisted when he faltered during his comeback.
“It was not easy,” he said. “I didn’t feel comfortable. It was different.”
He was also eager for a fresh start. Enter the Galaxy, who signed him a few weeks into last season for the bargain-bin price of $1.5 million. Ibrahimovic’s arrival at Los Angeles International Airport was streamed live on the internet, and Tomas Hilliard-Arce, a defender then in his rookie year with the Galaxy, said he was among the viewers.
“I kind of felt like it was a big day for me for some reason,” Hilliard-Arce said, “because I got to meet a hero.”
It was soon clear to his new teammates that Ibrahimovic wanted to incorporate himself into the fabric of the team, no small thing for a player of his stature. As he prepared for his first game, the inauguration of the Galaxy’s nascent cross-city rivalry with Los Angeles F.C., he made playful small talk with Emmanuel Boateng, a young midfielder.
“I’m going to need you to score two goals today,” Ibrahimovic said.
Ibrahimovic started the game on the bench, where he sat next to Hilliard-Arce. After the Galaxy gave up two quick goals, and then another at the start of the second half, Ibrahimovic began to mutter to himself. “I think he was mostly just psyching himself up,” Hilliard-Arce said.
Ibrahimovic entered the game in the 71st minute and promptly delivered a dose of his hallmark magic:a stunning half-volley from nearly 40 yardsand thena headed game-winner in stoppage time. Amid the celebrations, Ibrahimovic sought out Boateng.
“I told you to score two goals,” Ibrahimovic said. “But since you couldn’t do it, I had to do it myself.”
The rest of the season was less pleasant for the Galaxy — “Let’s say it went not good,” Ibrahimovic said — and the club regrouped by hiring a new coach, Guillermo Barros Schelotto, who was coming off a successful stint with Boca Juniors, the most decorated team in Argentina, and by re-signing Ibrahimovic to a one-year deal worth a league-record $7.2 million.
“The club wanted to give me a 10-year deal,” Ibrahimovic said, “but I said, ‘One year at a time.’ Because I need to feel good physically, and I don’t want to put the club in a situation where they’re stuck with me and I cannot perform for them.”
For all his self-assurance, though, there are jarring moments when Ibrahimovic at least seems to acknowledge the toll of age and injury.
“Imagine how I was last year? And then think five years, 10 years back,” he said. “I would do the same things but repeating them 10 times more. I was a machine. You could not stop me. And this is not me trying to make myself big for you. This is who I was. I was a different animal. I’m still an animal, but I was a different animal.”
Yet even at 37, Ibrahimovic has the same gravelly voice, the same marbled physique and the same sharp edge. His teammates say that he raises the intensity of everyone around him, and that every moment on the field is a competition to him. In training, he wants to win every drill so he has bragging rights in the locker room. And he does not hide his disgust when things do not go well.
“What shouldn’t be lost in his big personality is that this is one of the best players to ever play the game,” Don Garber, the M.L.S. commissioner, said. “And his focus on being a consummate professional is really his biggest value.”
Ibrahimovic’s transparency runs counter to the way many high-profile American athletes carry themselves. He has found that they tend to be too conscious of their image, he said — so polished, in fact, that they come off as artificial.
“I’m not an act,” Ibrahimovic said. “I will do mistakes, and I will learn from mistakes, and I will do mistakes again, and I will learn. I’m not perfect. I’m just being myself.”
He does not, for example, need to travel with a group of 20 advisers, he said. He does not need a stylist. He does not need to censor himself. He does not need to be anyone other than Zlatan, because usually that is more than enough.
“I am the real deal,” Ibrahimovic said as readied himself for a new season. “I am coming, and I am original.”
Supported by
ByReuters
SAO PAULO — Former soccer star Pele was released on Monday from hospital Albert Einstein in Sao Paulo, after seven days in the hospital and a procedure on Saturday to remove a kidney stone.
The 78-year-old former Santos and New York Cosmos player has suffered from kidney and prostate problems and also had hip replacement surgery in recent years. The Brazilian soccer legend had spent a week earlier this month in a hospital in Paris treating an urinary infection.
(Reporting by Gabriel Araujo; Editing by Leslie Adler)
Supported by

A former national soccer star and political dissident thanks the outside world for securing his freedom from Thailand, which imprisoned him on the request of his homeland.
ByHakeem al-Araibi
Mr. al-Araibi fled Bahrain in 2014.
MELBOURNE, Australia — I will never forget the love and support I was greeted with the moment I arrived here on Feb. 12 after spending 76 days in detention in Thailand. The combined international engagement on my case is what gave me my freedom back. I am home now with my wife, and for that we deeply thank all who played a role in my safe return.
What kept me going during these dark 76 days? Knowing that the whole world was witnessing the injustice. Millions of people saw me barefoot andshackled at a hearing in Bangkok,not because I had committed any crime — I had not — but because,I believe,Thailand’s ruling family happened to be tightening its relations with the Khalifas, the family that rules Bahrain, where I was born and which I had represented on its national soccer team.
The shackles were humiliating. I am not a criminal, though I had been tried in absentia on what are widely accepted to be made-upcharges — including the nonsensical accusation that I participated in burning a police station at a time I was playing soccer in a televised match —and was sentenced to 10 years in prison. I strongly believe my only “crime” was upsetting the Bahraini royal family by drawing attention to the failure of Sheikh Salman bin Ibrahim al-Khalifa, the president of the Asian Football Confederation, to protect athletes, and his alleged involvement in their arrest and torture, after pro-democracy demonstrations in the country in 2011.
I escaped Bahrain in 2014 after learning of the charge against me, and took up residence in Australia, where I was granted refugee status in 2017. Feeling safer, I often forgot there were still unfair charges against me, and my wife and I planned our honeymoon.
I arrived in Thailand only to find myself rapidly separated from my wife and confined to a detention center.
Many people believe that my return to Australia was a glorious victory, but to me it is only a half victory. I am safe and reunited with my wife, but I am also reminded that my dream of eventually going back to Bahrain will not be a reality any time soon.
Bahrain has only a jail cell to offer me, while Australia is now my home and its government and people have stood by me.
While in prison, I had a long time to consider how I got there. I have no doubt my imprisonment in Thailand was a punishment for mycriticismof Sheikh Salman, a member of the Bahraini royal family, during his 2016 campaign to be elected president of FIFA, the international soccer organization. My highlighting of his alleged violations of human rights in 2011 likely contributed to his failure to win the election.
I am a free man now, but what about themore than 150 Bahraini athletesand sports officials who were arrested and in some cases tortured in 2011? Some remain in prison to this day. No credible investigations into these abuses were carried out.
There is a dark side to sports in Bahrain. The kingdom uses wealth and sports to whitewash its legacy of abuses, and silences those who try to draw attention to this pattern.
TheactivistNajah Ahmed Yousif was tortured, sexually abused and imprisoned in 2017 for daring to criticize the Bahrain Grand Prix auto race, andthe journalist AhmedIsmail Hassan was shot and killed while attempting to cover protests surrounding the race in 2012.Salah Abbas Habib Musa, a protest leader, was shot by the police during the weekend of the race, and nobody was held accountable for his death. Next month Formula One racing is scheduled in Bahrain;if the Formula One management fails to secure the release of Ms.Yousif, it should cancel the race.
In Bahrain there are consequences for speaking up,but I am willing to take a personal risk and stand up for human rights no matter what, as are many brave Bahrainis.Don’t be mistaken, as I was when I went on my honeymoon to Thailand: I may be free now, but I and many other peaceful critics remain a target for Bahrain. Relatives of my friendSayedAhmed are imprisoned in Bahrain for his speaking out against the regime from his home in London. This week, Bahrain’s court upheld its three-year sentence in what the United Nations considers an unlawful act of reprisal through family connections.
Bahrain has been emboldened thanks to President Trump, who hasmade it clearto Bahrain that “there won’t be strain with this administration.” The United States was in a powerful position to help end my ordeal, but instead it chose to stay silent.
Indeed, Secretary of State Michael Pompeo traveled to Bahrain and praised the strategic partnership between the two countries, but made no mention of my case. Not only did he not mention my situation while I was still detained in Thailand, he failed toraisethe issue of human rights at all. The United States had the means to use its leverage, since Bahrain is a close ally and host of the Fifth Fleet, but it failed to take a stance. Britain, similarly and shamefully, avoided offeringsupportfor my situation.
If Bahrain has learned anything from seeking to extradite me, it is that the government can arrest, torture and repress its people and countries like the United States and Britain will continue to look the other way.My case underscores Bahrain’s enormous power to flout international standards, like lodging an illegitimate “red notice” with Interpol to stop a refugee while he travels.
It also shows Bahrain that the United States and Britain consider their own interests more important than the lives of individual Bahrainis. These countries are abandoning human rights at a time when things are worsening in Bahrain and will only continue to deteriorate.
I am so fortunate to have been able to return to Australia and continue my life, but many other Bahrainis are not as lucky. If they received the same level of international support I did, they might be enjoying the same freedom I am now.
Hakeem al-Araibi, a former member of Bahrain’s national soccer team, plays for Pascoe Vale Football Club in Melbourne.
Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weeklyAustralia Letter, start your day with your localMorning Briefingand join us in ourFacebook group.
The Times is committed to publishinga diversity of lettersto the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are sometips. And here’s our email:letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section onFacebook,Twitter (@NYTopinion)andInstagram.
Supported by
ByReuters
PARIS — Brazilian soccer legend Pele was discharged from a French hospital on Monday after recovering from a urinary infection, media in France reported.
Pele, 78, was admitted to the hospital in Paris last Wednesday with a strong fever, after attending an event in the city with France's World Cup-winning player Kylian Mbappe.
Pele, considered by many as soccer's best-ever player and the winner of three World Cups with the Brazilian national team, was treated with antibiotics and said on Friday he was feeling much better.
There was no immediate confirmation of the discharge from Pele's press office in Brazil.
(Reporting by Jean-Stéphane Brosse in Paris; Writing by Marcelo Teixeira in Sao Paulo; Editing by Peter Cooney)
Supported by
On Soccer
ByRory Smith
AMSTERDAM — Last summer, seven of Ajax’s brightest stars were summoned to a room at the Dutch club’s training facility. Edwin van der Sar, the goalkeeper-turned-chief-executive, and Marc Overmars, once a jet-heeled wing and now the Ajax sporting director, had a video to show them.
Its premise was simple. Each of the players was paired with an iconic figure from Ajax’s illustrious history, one who shared a position, a nationality or (in one case) a bloodline. Goalkeeper Andre Onana, in one example, had van der Sar. Forward Kasper Dolberg got Zlatan Ibrahimovic. Justin Kluivert was juxtaposed with his father, Patrick. Frenkie de Jong had Christian Eriksen, and Matthijs de Ligt was compared to Barry Hulshoff, a defender from Ajax’s all-conquering team of the 1970s.
The idea, van der Sar said, was to “show them how to become a legend at Ajax, and in Holland.” The film was designed to persuade the players, the club’s crown jewels, to resist the temptation to move to England, to Spain, to Italy, for another year or so, to “stay with each other, to win prizes and trophies here and then make the next step.”
The tactic worked. Six of the seven players should feature for Ajax when it hosts Real Madrid in the last 16 of the Champions League on Wednesday. De Ligt will marshal the defense. De Jong will orchestrate the attacks.
Only one of the seven will be absent: Kluivert resisted the emotional overture to follow in his father’s footsteps. He refused to extend his contract and was sold to Roma. At Ajax, they understand why he made that decision — the allure, for a teenager with a famous name, of forging his own path — but when they mention Kluivert now, it is with a hint of regret, a tinge of frustration.
Not because he left, but because he left so soon. “If a player goes after just half a year in the first team, like Kluivert, we are disappointed,” said Said Ouaali, the director of De Toekomst, Ajax’s famed youth academy.
In January, Ajax made another video. This time, it was for public consumption, posted on the club’s social media channels. It was a little more than a minute long, but it showcased all of what Erik ten Hag, Ajax’s current manager, called de Jong’s “special qualities.” It was titled, “Frenkie Futuro,” and was released to celebrate the confirmation of the 21-year-old’s move to Barcelona, set to be completed this summer.
De Jong is the shining light of this Ajax team, a player so promising that he has, more than once, been compared to Johan Cruyff himself. Yet there was no regret at his departure. “Barcelona, enjoy the future, like we do,” Ajax wrote on its official Twitter account.
The feelings will be the same, this summer, when de Ligt — a player who has been at Ajax since he was 8 — departs, as he is expected to do. A 20-year-old defender who is regarded by some Premier League scouts as the best prospect in any position in world soccer, de Ligt could join his friend at Barcelona, or he might end up at Juventus.
Either way, there will be no sadness, no sense of loss at what might have been. Ten Hag might allow himself to wonder a little, he said, at what could happen if “I could keep them for two or three years,” into their prime, but that is it.
“I will be proud,” he said. “The scouts who found them will be proud. Marc Overmars will be proud. Everyone will be. If they transfer to a big club, you are happy for them.”
This is, of course, what Ajax has always done. Since Cruyff himself left for Barcelona in 1973, it has churned out a stream of talent for others to enjoy: Johan Neeskens, Marco van Basten, Frank Rijkaard, Clarence Seedorf, Edgar Davids, Kluivert, Wesley Sneijder, Rafael van der Vaart, Eriksen, Ibrahimovic, Jan Vertonghen, Luis Suárez. The Ajax alumni list reads like a who’s who of modern soccer.
The formula that has allowed it to do so hangs on the wall in ten Hag’s office, opposite a series of black-and-white portraits of Rinus Michels, the mastermind of the great team of the 1970s; Cruyff, its star; and Louis van Gaal, the man who restored Ajax to the European pinnacle in the 1990s, with a team reared almost entirely at De Toekomst.
Ten Hag laughs when he looks at that wall — “They set you a standard,” he said, blowing out his cheeks — but he is serious when he discusses the Ajacied, a cross between a mission statement and a creed for the club.
These are the traits the club seeks to instill in every player who wears its jersey, or who passes through De Toekomst, as well as its coaches and staff. There are 11 of them; they have been arranged like a team. This being Ajax, they are set out in a 4-3-3 formation. They range from taking responsibility and initiative to remaining disciplined and having fun.
The approach, clearly, works. No team in Europe produces more professional players than Ajax. The club’s figures put it ahead of Partizan Belgrade and Dynamo Kyiv. According to Ouaali, a staggering 86 percent of players who are at De Toekomst at age 16 will go on to have pro careers.
But that is not to say it has not been adapted, altered, fine-tuned over the years. That process started in 2011, when Cruyff returned to a club that — in van der Sar’s words — “did not feel like Ajax anymore.” Cruyff and the cadre of former players he brought with him wanted not only to restore the focus on youth development, to shed highly paid, aging players, but to change the way Ajax worked.
“We focus always on the individual,” Ouaali said. “We don’t think about age groups, like the Dutch federation or like other clubs. It can be hard for coaches because they want results as well — to be successful, to be promoted to the next step up — but we try to find coaches who focus on the development of players, who learn the individual, not the team.”
The club recognized, too, that it had to work faster than before. Players were no longer staying in the Eredivisie until they were 23 or 24; they were leaving at 20 or 21, if not earlier. “At 19, they needed to be ready to play in the first team,” ten Hag said, “because at 20, they are gone.”
That meant more physical work at younger ages, and an end to players going to school outside Ajax. Now, they study at De Toekomst, so they can maximize the hours they spend in the classroom and on the training field.
Ajax borrowed methods found in Montessori education to mix age groups, and its under-18 team was abolished to “increase pressure on the talent,” Ouaali said.
The club’s second team, Jong Ajax — which plays in Dutch soccer’s second tier — no longer would be filled with senior players; now, most of its members are still in their teenage years. “We had to speed up the process,” ten Hag said. “They had to be good quicker.”
All of it was a formal acknowledgment of Ajax’s place in the 21st century soccer firmament. It is telling, for example, that Ouaali sees his job, and that of De Toekomst, not as to produce players for the first team, but to produce them for “Ajax, then the Dutch national team, then the top international level.”
The order is important. Ajax is not just about developing players; it is also concerned with winning. Van der Sar, in particular, was keenly aware of the need to keep its protégés long enough to benefit from them. It is why he has loosened the wage budget enough to make staying around for an extra year or two appealing. It is why the club is seeking to expand its global footprint, opening an office in New York; agreeing to run a youth system at Guangzhou R&F, the Chinese Super League team; finding ways to monetize its name.
De Jong and de Ligt have done what they were asked to do when they watched that video last summer. They might not have won a trophy, but by carrying Ajax to the last 16 of the Champions League, to a meeting with Real Madrid, they have “given something back,” as van der Sar put it.
When they — and possibly other members of the seven — depart, they will go with the best wishes of the club, and then the whole system will start again.
That, after all, is Ajax’s real gift: its ability not to produce one player, or one generation of them, but to keep on going. It is what makes players’ leaving not only desirable but necessary.
“We have to give the path to the next one,” van der Sar said. “If players stay too long, the next one cannot play. The whole thing chokes.”
He cited an example from just a couple of years ago. Davy Klaassen was Ajax’s captain then. He was 24. The club had high hopes for a young midfielder, Donny van der Beek, but he needed a place to play.
“Donny was saying, ‘O.K., Davy, come on now, it’s your time to go,’” van der Sar said.
Klaassen did go: to Everton. On Wednesday, van der Beek will be in midfield against Real Madrid. Another player, another one off the production line, giving something back.
Follow Rory Smith on Twitter:@RorySmith.



Supported by
ByRod Nordland
KABUL, Afghanistan — He was their nightmare, the young, female Afghan soccer players say: a menacing 57-year-old with two wives who locked the door to his back office with a biometric keypad that only he could open.
Many of those young soccer players, members of the women’s national team, lined up to accuse the man, the president of Afghan soccer, Keramuddin Keram, of sexually assaulting them in a bed he kept in that room, and elsewhere, charges they made both inpublic statementsand to Afghan prosecutors. Women who rebuffed his advances were labeled lesbians and expelled from the team, according to eight former players who said that had happened to them.
Three months later, however, the investigation into sexual abuse in Afghan soccer is stalled, amid fears it will never proceed. It has yet to result in any criminal charges.
One of Mr. Keram’s accusers, the soccer playerKhalida Popal, said he had actively pursued women who testified against him in Afghanistan, warning them to withdraw the charges. And witnesses like her who live in exile have not been interviewed in person by Afghan investigators, as required by law, because so far the investigators have not been able to get visas.
Mr. Keram remains the president of the Afghanistan Football Federation, which is in charge of men’s and women’s soccer, the country’s most popular sport, although he is suspended byorder of the attorney general. And FIFA, the governing body for world soccer, has justextended Mr. Keram’s banfrom participating in national and international soccer for three more months, as its own investigation, nearly a year old, grinds on.
Neither FIFA nor Mr. Keram responded to requests for comment.
Despite public support from President Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan investigation has run into a powerful lobby made up of supporters of Mr. Keram from Panjshir, a politically dominant province in northern Afghanistan. Once a local warlord and later governor of the province, Mr. Keram remains well connected with the Jamiat-i-Islami party, the major political force in the north.
Prosecutors have the power to arrest Mr. Keram but have not done so, though they have blocked him from leaving the country. “If the investigative committee thinks they need to arrest him, they will do so,” said Jamshid Rasooli, the attorney general’s spokesman.
Mr. Rasooli confirmed a report by ToloNews, an Afghan television news program, that two of the attorney general’s investigators had not yet obtained visas to interview witnesses in Europe, which has led to speculation that the visas were denied for fear that the investigators would claim asylum themselves. He said they had been waiting for the visas for more than a month.
Ms. Popal, 31, reached by telephone in Denmark, said she had heard from at least three soccer players in the past two months who withdrew their charges against Mr. Keram after they received direct, personal threats from him.
Two of the women answered calls from someone they knew, who then handed the phone to Mr. Keram. In the third case, the woman was walking to soccer practice in Kabul near the football federation offices when she was forced into a car with blacked-out windows, finding Mr. Keram inside, Ms. Popal was told.
“He told them, ‘I know you have been to the attorney general’s office and given testimony against us,’ ” Ms. Popal said. “ ‘Go and take back the testimony. You know I am a powerful person. Nobody will put me in jail. I will win this case. It’ll take some time, but then what will happen to you? Think about your future and what will happen to you and your family.’ ”
Ms. Popal said the three women, whom she declined to identify for their safety, had gone into hiding and were no longer willing to testify against Mr. Keram.
Mr. Keram did not respond to repeated efforts to contact him for comment. A spokesman for the Afghan federation, Shafi Shadab, who had earlier spoken on behalf of Mr. Keram, said Saturday that the attorney general had ordered him to have no further contact with the soccer chief. The federation’s Facebook page hasposted a statementdenying all of the charges.
Ms. Popal was one of the founders of women’s soccer in Afghanistan and remained active with the team after fleeing to Denmark, where she claimed asylum in 2011. She accused Mr. Keram of the rape and sexual assault of other players and claimed to have evidence that she had reported those claims to the federation early last year with no response.
“The president of A.F.F. and some trainers are raping and sexually harassing female players,” she said in aDecember interview. She earlier made similar claims in aninterview with The Guardian.
In addition to Mr. Keram, four other members of the federationwere suspendedand banned from travel. The ban on one of them, the federation’s deputy president, Yosuf Kargar, was lifted in January after the attorney general’s office said it had found no evidence against him.
Mr. Keram appealed his suspension by FIFA but was denied.
Earlier, the sponsor of the Afghan national women’s team, the Danish sportswear manufacturer Hummel, withdrew its financial support over what it called “strong allegations of severe mental, physical, sexual and equal rights abuse of the female players by male A.F.F. officials.”
Last month, Kelly Lindsey, the American coach of the Afghan women’s team, urged FIFA to step in and take more concrete action. It could, for instance, ban the Afghan teams from competition.
“I think FIFA really needs to stand up here. They are the governing body of football and if they allow this to happen in their culture, then it’s easy for it to be pushed under the rug,” she said in aninterview with Reuters.
FIFA has defended its actions, noting that it suspended Mr. Keram and is investigating the allegations. It added that it had “zero tolerance” for sexual abuse. Last week,FIFA saidthe head of its investigation had requested that Mr. Keram’s ban be extended for 90 days, and that the organization had agreed.
“During this time, Mr. Karim will continue to be banned from all football-related activities at both national and international level,” it said, using an alternative transliteration of Mr. Keram’s name.
Human Rights Watchweighed inlast month, urging both FIFA and the Afghan authorities to move more decisively on their investigations. “FIFA, which said it began investigating these allegations last April, should share information with Afghan investigators and maintain a ban on accused officials,” the rights group said.
Mr. Rasooli said the Afghan attorney general was determined to fully pursue the case against Mr. Keram and the others accused. They have not been arrested, he said, because under Afghan law that would limit the time the authorities had to conduct their investigation.
“This is a complicated case,” he said. “We have interviewed 30 witnesses inside Afghanistan and that part of the case is almost completed.”
He added that the authorities still hoped to obtain European visas for investigators.
Ms. Popal said she was still hopeful that the investigation of Mr. Keram and his colleagues would succeed.
“I really respect and trust the committee in the attorney general’s office working on this case,” she said. “At the same time, I don’t know how powerful they are once the case is out of their hands. And he is a powerful guy, with so much influence inside the government.”
An earlier version of this article described incorrectly a report by the Afghan program ToloNews about European visa applications by two government investigators. The report said they had not yet obtained the visas, not that the visas had been denied.
Follow Rod Nordland on Twitter:@rodnordland.
Fahim Abed contributed reporting.




Supported by
ByDavid W. ChenandMarc Tracy
As Rudy Meredith was inducted into the Connecticut Soccer Hall of Fame in January to honor his 24-year run as Yale women’s soccer coach, he sprinkled his hallmark humor and humility throughout his remarks.
He recounted how his wife was on the opposite sideline for the University of Hartfordwhen they metin the early 2000s. And he saluted several people in the audience while repeatedly expressing “thankfulness,” recalled Bill Duffy, a middle school principal and soccer lifer who served as master of ceremonies.
There was nothing in Mr. Meredith’s words, Mr. Duffy said, “that would refer to anything that was going on.”
Despite Mr. Meredith’s placid demeanor, people who knew him best had recently begun to detect changes in his behavior. He seemed to be more anxious. He appeared less enthusiastic about soccer, even before he resigned as Yale’s coach in November. He paid little attention to recruiting. He played poorly in pickleball, a paddle sport he usually excelled at.
In hindsight, those hints of stress and fatigue coincided with revelations that Mr. Meredith, 51, had been the linchpin of a sprawling federal investigation into corrupt college admissions schemes thatexploded into public view this week.
At the heart of the scandal was a consultant, William Singer, who took $25 million to help fix exam scores or fraudulently misclassify prospective students as recruited athletes to boost their chances of being admitted to elite colleges. But the person who led federal authorities to Mr. Singer, according to court papers filed on Tuesday, was Mr. Meredith.
In a Boston hotel on April 12, 2018, Mr. Meredith solicited a $450,000 bribe from the parent of a prospective college student in exchange for saving a Yale soccer recruitment spot for his daughter. Mr. Meredith took $2,000 from the parent, and directed the parent to wire future payments to a bank account in Connecticut. But the F.B.I. was secretly recording the conversation, the charging documents said. Then six days later, the parent, who was working with the authorities, wired $4,000 to Mr. Meredith from a bank account in Boston that the F.B.I. controlled, giving the government evidence of wire fraud.
With the authorities on to Mr. Meredith, he told them about a deal he had struck in November 2017, when Mr. Singer had introduced him to a man who wanted his daughter to attend Yale. Mr. Singer helped doctor the application to make it seem as though she was the co-captain of a prominent club soccer team in Southern California, even though she did not play at that level, according to the government documents. But Mr. Meredith told the admissions office he wanted to recruit her, and after she was admitted, Mr. Singer paid the coach $400,000.
Late Friday, Yale released a statement in which it said one student involved in the scheme was admitted and is attending now, while the other was denied admission. In the statement, Peter Salovey, the university president, called the criminal actions “an affront to our community’s deeply held values of fairness, inclusion and honesty.” Mr. Salovey said the university was starting an internal investigation into its admissions process.
Prosecutors said on Tuesday that Mr. Meredith had agreed to plead guilty to wire fraud, honest services wire fraud and conspiracy to commit honest services wire fraud.
Mr. Meredith did not respond to a request for comment. Paul Thomas, Mr. Meredith’s lawyer, who works ata New Haven firm founded by Felice Duffy, a former Yale soccer coachwho later became a federal prosecutor and lawyer, declined to comment.
It was a dramatic fall for a man considered to be a Yale institution. Mr. Meredith started as an assistant coach in 1992, rose to head coach in 1995 and led the team to its first unshared Ivy League title in 2005.
The charges blindsided virtually everyone who knew Mr. Meredith, according to interviews with more than a dozen former players and others connected to Yale or soccer. Mr. Meredith was generous and well liked, and did not appear to have any health, financial or personal problems.
“I’m both appalled and sympathetic — I would never have thought that he was capable of doing this,” said Sharon Eisen, a veterinarian who became friendly with the Merediths in recent years through pickleball, in which Mr.Meredithis anational-level player and coach. “On the one hand, I know them and like them personally. But on the other hand, I’ve lost all respect. So greedy. So immoral.”
Mr. Meredith grew up modestly in the Rockville, Md., area, and was an all-state soccer player at Richard Montgomery High School. But he failed classes while at Montgomery College, and almost quit school. After undergoing tests at the urging of his coach andbeing found to have a learning disability, he turned his life around, and ultimately transferred to Southern Connecticut State. The university’s men’s soccer program was then a Division II powerhouse. Mr. Meredith played on the 1990 N.C.A.A. championship team, then embarked on a career coaching soccer and teaching physical education.
Robert Kehoe, director of college programs for the National Soccer Coaches Association of America, said he first met Mr. Meredith in 1996 and worked closely with the Yale women’s team for the next several years as part of a development workshop he used to conduct.
“He had a lot of credibility because he was a very good player in his own right,” Mr. Kehoe said.
Mr. Meredith quickly fostered an energetic atmosphere. He required players to wear costumes for Halloween practice. He bought bagels and extra food on his own dime for long bus rides to away games, while good-naturedly enduring the film “Dirty Dancing” at his players’ behest.
Yale enjoyed success in the mid-2000s, with the 2005 team reaching the third round of the N.C.A.A. tournament, knocking out third-seeded Duke in the process. Mr. Meredith coached several Ivy League players of the year and anall-Americansecond-teamer who was profiled by ESPN. Meredith Speck, class of 2015, was the first Yale player in the National Women’s Soccer League, according toYale's alumni magazine.
“The thing I remember is how professionally he treated us,” said Theryn Gibbons, who was a member of Meredith’s first recruiting class in 1996 and now ranks third on Yale’s scoring list. “Refs were calling me Babe, and Rudy was never like that — we were athletes. He was very respectful, very sensitive.”
If anything, Ms. Gibbons said, Mr. Meredith sometimes seemed intimidated by the aura of Yale, and tried hard to be liked.
“He’s not sophisticated by any means, and I know he would defer to people who he thought were smarter,” said Ms. Gibbons, who later became a federal prosecutor. “He’s very trusting, and gullible for sure.”
She added, “I’m not condoning what is alleged, but he’s family, and you stand by family.”
Mr. Meredith’s wife, Eva Bergsten Meredith, was also a familiar presence at Yale soccer events. A former national team player for Sweden, she is the longtime women’s soccer coach at Wesleyan, and has also run, with her husband,Bulldog Cardinal soccer campfor many years.
In 2013, in what former players said was an unusual move, the Yale women’s coaching position itself was endowed in Mr. Meredith’s name, thanks to an anonymous donation: For a time, Rudy Meredith was the Rudolph L. Meredith Head Coach of Women’s Soccer. Even after Mr. Meredith’s resignation in November, the name stuck: When Brendan Flaherty was hired as Mr. Meredith’s replacement the next month, it was as the Loring Family and Rudolph L. Meredith Head Coach of Women’s Soccer.
Now, Mr. Flaherty is listed on Yale’s website as simply the Loring Family coach. It was not immediately clear when or why Yale made the change. A university spokesman said Mr. Meredith was not involved in funding and naming the position.
In recent years, Yale’s teams did not perform as well as they had in the 2000s, and players and friends began to suspect that Mr. Meredith wasno longer as gung-ho about soccer.
Adele Jackson-Gibson, a Yale goalkeeper who graduated in 2013 and is now a freelance writer in Brooklyn, said she “could feel people become more defeated over time.” She added, “People seem tired and a little bit checked out.”
Some players, speaking on condition of anonymity so as not to be ensnared in the investigation, also began to notice a player or two, every couple of years, who did not belong on a Division I team, based on their skill level. Some of those players came from wealthy families, prompting speculation that their parents had donated money in exchange for coveted recruiting spots.
In August 2017, the Merediths purchased a vacation home in Fernandina Beach, Fla., for $125,000, and took out a construction loan for $359,250, records show. The next month, Mr. Meredith was badly shaken, friends say, bythe unexpected deathof Fritz Rodriguez, a longtime assistant coach who had been Mr. Meredith’s roommate and teammate in college. So his resignation in November 2018 did not come as a complete surprise to some.
What few knew, of course, was that he had been cooperating with federal authorities for roughly half a year.
A Yale spokesman said the university learned about the scheme and the federal investigation only after the announcement that he was leaving.
Mr. Duffy, the M.C. at the Hall of Fame ceremony, summed up the feelings of many people close to Mr. Meredith when he said that he was still processing the gravity of the scandal.
“In the soccer community, we’re saddened by Rudy’s personal involvement, whatever that may be,” he said. “I think more people are angry that more deserving players were overlooked.”
Katie Benner contributed reporting, and Susan C. Beachy contributed research.



Supported by
ByTariq Panja
ABU DHABI — Qatar forward Almoez Ali joined a small group of record-makers at the Asian Cup last week, becoming only the fourth player in the tournament’s history to score four goals in a single game. His exploits in his country’s 6-0 thrashing of North Korea were cheered by just one fan sporting the Gulf country’s colors.
That was one more than team officials expected.
That is because the Asian Cup is being played this month in the United Arab Emirates, one of the main players in the punishing Saudi Arabia-led blockade of Qatar that began in 2017 and already has led to inconveniences forvisiting Qatari officials,visiting Qatari journalistsand, clearly, given their tiny number, visiting Qatari fans. The looming specter of the political dispute has produced a surreal air around Qatar’s matches, one that is expected to be repeated at its showdown against Saudi Arabia on Thursday at Zayed City Sports Stadium.
Because of the geopolitical implications, that match could be one of the most-watched games of the tournament, though it will most likely not include many, if any, Qataris in the stands. The official attendance figure for the Qatar-North Korea game on Sunday in Al Ain was announced as 452, though several people who attended said the actual numbermost likely was closerto 100. Similarly low attendance figures have been a feature of the tournament, Asia’s most important soccer championship, in its first two weeks.
The one flag-waving fan in Qatar’s maroon colors Sunday was a South Korean woman who had traveled from her homeland to root for Qatar, according to Qatari officials. Two other unidentified men sat nearby behind a Qatari flag, a rare spot of color in a sea of white seats. The sparse crowd only avoided setting another tournament record, for the lowest attendance, because of two groups of fans bused in by North Korea’s delegation.
The soporific atmosphere most likely will give way to something far different and far more political when Qatar and Saudi Arabia meet to decide the winner of Group E. The countries have not met on the soccer field since diplomatic ties between the countries were severed 18 months ago, but the game’s location in this Emirate capital adds another layer of tension.
“That’s almost more difficult to imagine than the U.S. national soccer team playing Iran in Tehran,” said Neil Quilliam, a senior research fellow with the Middle East and North Africa program at London’s Chatham House, a British foreign-affairs think tank. “There will be some jittery people in Qatar hoping their players make it home.”
Political intrigue large and small is nothing new at the Asian Cup. On Tuesday, Palestine played Jordan, which has been home to Palestinian refugees for over half a century. A day later, Iran faced Iraq. Yemen, which is on the brink of famine amid a prolonged Saudi-led assault on Houthi rebels, is among the first-time participants in the event.
This year’s tournament also has been accompanied bysignificant issues in the soccer world. The A.F.C.’s president, Sheikh Salman bin Ebrahim Al Khalifa, a member of the Bahraini royal family, has been assailed over his silence about the fate of Hakeem al-Araibi, a refugee soccer player of Bahraini descent who was detained in Thailandon the orders of Bahrain’s government. And the event is the latest staging point for discussions related to FIFA President Gianni Infantino’s desire to expand the 2022 Qatar World Cup to 48 teams, a move that almost certainly would require Qatar to share games with countries currently leading the blockade, as well as a simmering battle for the leadership of the A.F.C. Sheikh Salman faces two challengers: one from Qatar, and another from the U.A.E.
But the main crisis at this year’s Asian Cup remains the ongoing blockade of Qatar. The U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia have been in lock step in their opposition to Qatar, which they have accused of financing terrorism, interfering in their domestic affairs and growing too close to Iran. The countries were especially incensed by Qatar’s support for a range of activists across the Arab world, including the political Islamists that other Gulf monarchs consider a threat to their rule.
Qatar’s leaders have denied the accusations of interference and of financing terrorism, arguing that it is their country’s independence thathas most angered their neighbors. But the blockade’s effects on the tournament is not difficult to spot.
Saoud al-Mohannadi, a Qatari and the Asian Football Confederation’s senior official responsible for the tournament, was initiallybarred from traveling tothe U.A.E.on the eve of the competition. Initially prevented from boarding a flight from Oman, he was allowed through a day later. Five journalists cleared to cover the event by the A.F.C. weren’t so lucky; they were turned back upon arrival, though one photographer was allowed in. (Saudi Arabia has 47 print reporters accredited for the tournament.)
Local organizers and the Abu Dhabi Sports Council were not made available for interviews. Neither group responded to emailed questions related to the tournament.
Complicating matters further is the tournament’s television agreement. Qatar’s beIN Sports holds the broadcast rights for the event, but several top hotels, including the guest rooms of the Fairmont, where A.F.C.’s official delegation is based, and the hotels adjacent to the stadiums refuse to air beIN’s lineup of channels.
Since the start of the crisis, beIN’s broadcasts — matches for which it has paid hundreds of millions of dollars for the exclusive rights —have been pirated by entity known as beoutQ, which Qatar contends is based in Saudi Arabia. As it did during last summer’s World Cup, beoutQ is broadcasting the Asian Cup in its entirety, overlaying beIN’s logo with its own.
Asian Cup organizers have issued statements of frustration and threats of legal action, with little effect. In Bahrain, Sheikh Nasser bin Hamad al-Khalifa, a son of the country’s ruler, posted a video on Instagram this week of his reaction to his country’s last-minute triumph against India on Monday. His chosen broadcaster, made clear by the logo on the screen, was beoutQ. (The A.F.C’s president is a member of Bahrain’s royal family.)
On the eve of the game, beIN launched awebsitethat outlined evidence against the channel, which it describes as a Saudi-supported operation.
The broader dispute has been visible inside stadiums, too; at several, the partnership between the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia in opposition to Qatar is on display in banners that display both countries’ flags and a set of shaking hands.
What will happen on the field Thursday at the Zayed Sports City Stadium remains anyone’s guess. At an under-19 game between the U.A.E. and Qatar in October, the Emirati captainrefused to shake handswith his Qatari counterpart at the pregame coin toss.
Qatari officials and players have tried to play down the political cloud hanging over their presence. They say they are focused on improving ahead of the next men’s World Cup, which Qatar will host in 2022.
On Tuesday, Qatar’s players appeared to be in good humor as they ran out to practice around sunset at a local field in Abu Dhabi, joking and teasing one another as a group of Spanish coaches put them through their paces. Apart from having no fans present at its games, the team has not faced any issues with the A.F.C. and local tournament organizers, according to a spokesman for the Qatari soccer federation, Ali al-Salat. But the players were briefed to avoid discussing politics ahead of the Saudi Arabia match.
“You might look at it as special, but in our case it’s not that special,” midfielder Salem al Hajri said in a short interview as he prepared to join Tuesday’s training session.
Asked about the political implications of the game, Saudi Arabia’s captain and its coach both demurred, saying those thoughts were for others.
“We are thinking exclusively on the sports part of the game tomorrow,” said Juan Antônio Pizzi, Saudi Arabia’s Argentine coach. “Whatever the surrounding issues, we are not entitled to talk about things off the field.”
Al Hajri and his Qatar teammates are guaranteed at least one supporter. The South Korean woman at the team’s first two matches, Mary Lee, confirmed that she would attend. Her relationship with the team is a curious one; al-Salat said she has links to the Qatar embassy in South Korea.
“We appreciate the support because she’s the only fan who holds the Qatari flag in the U.A.E.,” al-Salat said. In normal times, she would be joined by at least 2,000 Qatari fans, he said, but the regular flights between Qatar’s capital, Doha, and Abu Dhabi have also been shut down by the blockade.
Qataris now need special clearance and two layers of vetting to travel into the Emirates, where many have family members. But without direct flights between the countries, fans interesting in traveling to the Asian Cup would be required to fly through another country — typically Oman or Kuwait — as the national team was required to do on its way here. (Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa bin Ahmed al-Thani, a member of the Qatari royal family who leads the soccer federation, has based himself in Oman and flies in for his team’s games.)
Saudi’s soccer federation, meanwhile, has secured thousands of tickets for its games, but their fans’ presence has had little effect at a tournament notable for its paltry attendance figures. The lack of fans has created a strange atmosphere inside the stadiums, with loud music echoing around largely empty arenas and M.C.s who exhort those present to “make some noise.”
Despite tickets priced as low as about $7, even neutral fans are staying away. Several migrant workers, a group that heavily outnumbers U.A.E. nationals in Abu Dhabi, said their biggest obstacle was not ticket prices or geopolitical intrigue but something far more basic: As one Nigerian taxi driver said, he was just too busy.
“I’m always at work,” he said.



Supported by
In her words
The U.S. women’s soccer team has filed a gender discrimination lawsuit. The players are the latest athletes to demand equal treatment.
ByMaya Salam
You’re reading In Her Words, where women rule the headlines.Sign uphere to get it delivered to your inbox. Let me know what you think atdearmaya@nytimes.com.
“Everyone thinks women should be thrilled when we get crumbs, and I want women to have the cake, the icing and the cherry on top, too.”
— Billie Jean King, a tennis legend who led the charge for pay equality in her sport
Last week, all 28 players on the U.S. women’s national soccer team — the greatest women’s soccer team in the world — filed a gender discrimination lawsuit against the United States Soccer Federation, another move in itslong-running battlefor equality.
The athletes — including the stars Alex Morgan, Megan Rapinoe and Carli Lloyd — are not just taking issue with their paychecks but also with where they play, how they travel to matches, and the medical treatment and coaching they receive, in what they called “institutionalized gender discrimination,” asmy colleague Andy Das reported.
“We’ve always, dating back to forever, been a team that stood up for itself and fought hard for what it felt it deserved and tried to leave the game in a better place,” Rapinoe told The New York Times on Friday.
The women’s team holds a record three World Cup championships and four Olympic gold medals.
[READ MORE: U.S. Women’s Soccer Team Sues U.S. Soccer for Gender Discrimination]
The issue of pay inequality in sports is of course not just soccer’s problem. Women across all sports are paid less, and many have fought for equity in salary and in prize money.
Here are other cases where pay inequality has been stark, compelling female athletes to speak out.
The U.S. Open.After long-fought battles by champions like Billie Jean King, Chris Evert, Martina Navratilova, and Venus and Serena Williams, tennis has seen the most progress when it comes to pay equity.The first real appeal was made in 1970 by King, after a tournament in Italy for which she was paid just $600 for taking the women’s title. The men’s winner was awarded $3,500. King would later make this statement: “Everyone thinks women should be thrilled when we get crumbs, and I want women to have the cake, the icing and the cherry on top, too.”In 1973, King threatened to sit out the U.S. Open unless the prize money was made equal. It worked. That year, the men’s and women’s champions were paid equally, and the U.S. Open has paid its winners equally since. Other Grand Slams, though, were slow to follow suit.
[READ MORE: Eight Times Women in Sports Fought for Equality]
The Australian Open, and other Grand Slams.Prize money forthe Australian Open had fluctuated for decades:In 1978, the men’s winner was paid about 585 percent more than the women’s,ESPN reported last year. And in the mid-1980s, the women’s winner was paid slightly more. By the mid-1990s, men were again paid more, prompting officials in the Women's Tennis Association to push hard for equal pay. In 2001, theAustralian Openagreed, and winners have been compensated equally since. The French Open came around in 2006, and then Wimbledon in 2007, a change led by Venus Williams.Williams made a failed plea to Wimbledon’s governing body the night before she took the title in 2005. And in 2006, she wrote anop-ed in The Times of Londontitled “Wimbledon Has Sent Me a Message: I’m Only a Second Class Champion.” In 2007, she was awarded $1.4 million for her victory, the same as the men’s champion, Roger Federer. More recently,Novak Djokovic, currently the No. 1 men’s player in the world, suggested men deserve more money. “The stats are showing that we have much more spectators on the men’s tennis matches,”he said in 2016. “I think that’s one of the reasons why maybe we should get awarded more.”
The W.N.B.A.When compared with the N.B.A., athletes in the W.N.B.A. face extremepay disparities— though, as is often pointed out, the N.B.A. is a multibillion dollar industry, while the W.N.B.A. is not. Nonetheless, in 2018, theW.N.B.A. set an individual salary capof $117,500, and rookies earned a minimum of about $50,000. The minimum starting salary for N.B.A. players is about $580,000.
Last summer, A’ja Wilson, a star rookie who was the No. 1 overall W.N.B.A. draft pick in 2018, commented on LeBron James’s $154 million contract with the Los Angeles Lakers. “Must be nice. We over here looking for an M but Lord, let me get back in my lane,” shetweeted.Wilson earned about $53,000 that season. The top N.B.A. draft pick last year,Deandre Ayton, is expected to earn $6.8 million in his first year.
U.S.A. Hockey.In March 2017, the women’s national hockey teamannounced that it would boycottthe coming world championship if U.S.A. Hockey did not increase the women’s wages. The risk paid off. Within days,the team and U.S.A. Hockeyreached a four-year dealthat gave the female players a $2,000 training stipend each month from the United States Olympic Committee and larger bonuses for winning medals. “We want to do the fair thing, and the right thing — not just for hockey but for all women,” Meghan Duggan, the team’s captain, said at the time.
Sign up here to get In Her Words delivered to your inbox!
______
Here are five articles from The Times you might have missed.
“My passion has been taken away.”A midwife who has delivered hundreds of babies for Mennonite women is facing felony charges for practicing without the proper license. The women are speaking publicly in her defense. [Read the story]
“Black audiences are what I’ve considered my base, and I will always make movies for that base.”The actress Regina Hall talks about the two Hollywoods, spirituality and success. [Read the story]
“Even Google can no longer hide its gender pay gap.”A new federal rule will force big companies to report pay scales according to gender and race. [Read the story]
“I didn’t mean to be brave.”When her husband was arrested on child pornography charges, Maddie Corman’s world fell apart. Then she made a play about it. [Read the story]
“It will be good not to be a black spot on the map any longer.”Mario Batali exits his restaurants a year after reports that he sexually assaulted and harassed women. [Read the story]
______
For Women’s History Month, we’re highlighting stories of trailblazing women you may not know, but should. We’ll bring you two women each week in this newsletter; head over toour Instagramfor daily posts.
In 1995, Alison Hargreaves became the first woman to conquer Mount Everest alone, without bottled oxygen or the help of Sherpas. When she reached the peak, she sent a radio message to her son and daughter: “To Tom and Kate, my dear children, I am on the highest point of the world, and I love you dearly.”
Her homeland, Britain, rejoiced. But the excitement did not last long. Three months later, Hargreaves, 33, died descending from the summit of K2 in Pakistan.Read more about Alison Hargreaves here.
Sign up hereto get future installments of In Her Words delivered to your inbox.
Read past articles here.
Supported by
ByIliana MagraandPalko Karasz
LONDON — Parts of seat cushions believed to be from the small plane carrying the Argentine soccer player Emiliano Sala and his pilot that disappeared over the English Channel have been found on a French beach, the British authorities said on Wednesday.
The cushions were discovered by the French authorities on Monday near Surtainville, a coastal area in northwestern France, Britain’s Air Accidents Investigation Branchsaid in a statement.
British investigators have identified a search area of approximately four square miles based on the plane’s path and last known radar position. A specialist vessel will search the seabed for the wreckage at the end of this week, weather permitting, the statement added.
“We are aware that a privately operated search is also being conducted in the area, and we are liaising closely with those involved to maximize the chance of locating any wreckage and ensure a safe search operation,” the statement said.
Mr. Sala, a 28-year-old forward, had recently been transferred to the Premier League club Cardiff City after emerging as a prolific goal scorer for Nantes, in the French league. The plane carrying him andthe pilot, David Ibbotson,disappeared en route to Cardiff on the night of Jan. 21; Mr. Sala was scheduled to practice with the Welsh team for the first time the next day.
An underwater search conducted by a high-tech submarine is scheduled to start at the end of the week, in what will be a privately led attempt to find the Piper Malibu plane, a single-engine, propeller-driven aircraft.
The initiative to start the private operation was made by Mr. Sala’s family, after the authorities decided end the search on Thursday.
But people from all over the world have chipped in to help support of the family’s search for answers about what happened. Sport Cover, a Paris-based soccer agency, starteda GoFundMe pageon Friday that by Wednesday evening had raised more than 369,000 euros, about $422,000, to aid the search.
The page has attracted a significant amount of attention, including donations by soccer stars like Kylian Mbappé, a member of the French national team that won the World Cup last year, and Ilkay Gündogan, a German player with Manchester City in the Premier League.
Cardiff City paid tribute to Mr. Sala on Tuesday, at its first match since he disappeared, against Arsenal in London. Players and staff wore daffodils in his honor, and his name was included in the team roster in the match-day program. Both Cardiff and Arsenal, which won the match, laid floral tributes to Mr. Sala at Emirates Stadium.
At several English Premier League matches this week, the teams observed a moment of silence in memory of Mr. Sala.
“It is very difficult to even describe how the players are feeling,” Sol Bamba, a Cardiff defender, told BBC Sport Wales.
“We have all been affected by it — the lads, the city, the whole club.”
News reports have questioned whether Mr. Ibbotson should have been piloting the plane. He held a private pilot’s license in the United States, and his medical certification was up to date, according to records on the Federal Aviation Administration’s website.
But to fly the plane in Britain with a paying passenger, Mr. Ibbotson needed a commercial pilot’s license, and to fly at night, he needed a so-called instrument rating. Britain’s Civil Aviation Authority would not comment on Mr. Ibbotson’s credentials, but the authorities said the investigation into the plane’s disappearance would cover personnel records.
The flight went through rough, wintry weather over the Channel, and Mr. Sala left a voice message for friends and relativessaying that he was afraidthat the plane would break apart.
“This would not have posed a problem for a pilot with a current instrument rating, but difficult for a pilot without one,” David Learmount, a former flight instructor, said in an email.
Shortly before the plane vanished from radar, Mr. Ibbotson requested and received permission from air traffic control to descend to 2,500 feet, possibly to go under the worst of the weather, or to avoid icing, which can cause a plane to crash.
Willie McKay, Mr. Sala’s agenthas told the BBCthat he was involved in selecting the plane or the pilot and that he did not own the plane that flew Mr. Sala. He said the flight was organized through a man named David Henderson, “who has flown us and many of our players all over Europe on countless occasions.”



Supported by
Embracing scouting strategies now common elsewhere and an ambition bigger than its wallet, Racing Club rides a new plan into first place.
ByRory Smith
AVELLANEDA, Argentina — Partially obscured by a rusting rack of weights, the back wall of the gym at Racing Club’s youth academy has been painted dark blue and daubed with symbols.
On one side are four bright, color-coded dots; on the other, four numbered yellow circles. Rising from the floor are two miniature depictions of goal posts, no more than a foot wide; fixed at the top are two hooks, looped with string, a ball hanging from each.
Diego Huerta, an assistant at the academy and one of the club’s scouts, walks past with barely a glance, stopping only when he registers the confused looks. At Borussia Dortmund, he explains, the academy boasts a Footbonaut, a futuristic piece of training equipment designed to improve speed of thought and skill of execution. Standing inside a cage, Dortmund players receive a ball every few seconds. Simultaneously, a box on one of the four walls will light up. The player must swivel, fire the ball into the correct box, and then be ready to receive the next pass.
Dortmund is one of just two clubs in the world to have one; T.S.G. Hoffenheim is the other. Coaches believe that two or three minutes inside the Footbonaut can have the same impact as multiple training sessions, but it does not come cheap: Each machine costs from $2 million to $4 million, and requires updates to the software that runs it.
That price tag is way beyond Racing’s means. It is working with a local software developer on a pared-down, budget-friendly equivalent, but in the meantime, its answer, adapted for the realities and restrictions of the game in Argentina, includes the dots and circles painted on the weight room walls, the soccer balls hanging from strings. “This,” Huerta said, “is our version.”
The same ethos is struck through everything Racing does. Like all of Argentina’s traditional powerhouses, this is a club conscious of its history. The walls of the cafe at the academy are lined with images of former stars; half of the room is given over to an extensive timeline of the club’s achievements, from the swath of championships it claimed in the early part of the 20th century to its first Copa Libertadores success, in 1967.
That year, it became the first Argentine team to win the Intercontinental Cup, beating the European champion, Glasgow Celtic, over two bad-tempered legs. It has styled itself “el primer grande” — the first of Argentina’s great clubs — ever since.
Unusually, though, Racing is not beholden to that history, or content to be swaddled by its traditions. Argentina’s biggest clubs are run as social institutions, in which members vote for presidents every few years. The system is cherished as a bulwark against corporate creep, a way of ensuring that clubs’ identities are not leveraged to the highest bidder, but it can make them cumbersome and conservative, structurally resistant to change.
In that context, Racing stands out as a bastion of innovation. It is not just the homemade Footbonaut. It is the support available to the 55 boys who live at the club’s academy, far in advance of what most of their peers in Argentina would be offered, ranging from social workers and psychologists to academic tutors. It is the approach to player development, centering less on results and more on individual progress. Most of all, it is the work done in a small, subterranean office in the parking lot of the club’s stadium.
Here, Javier Weiner’s team of four scouts, including Huerta, sits at a bank of four desks, each one dominated by an iMac. The scouts scour games from Argentina’s lower leagues and a handful of South American countries on Wyscout, a content platform that streams action from across the world.
Each scout has an area to cover: Weiner takes Argentina and Colombia; Huerta monitors youth soccer and Venezuela.
Using the analytics service InStat, they compile dossiers on potential acquisitions, drawing together not just raw performance data but also players’ psychological, emotional and medical backgrounds. They track information from journalists on social media.
Most clubs of this scale in Europe, North America and Asia would see this work as standard now; in Argentina, it is all but revolutionary. “Most of the time, it is the head coach who recruits players, or the president, with the help of a few agents,” Huerta said. “There is no process: Everything changes constantly. And there are times when crucial decisions are made by someone who does not know anything about football.”
Racing, however, is determined to be “another type of club,” Weiner said. “We have to be creative,” he said. “We have to have a network that means we can get players before bigger clubs because financially we cannot compete with River Plate and Boca Juniors.”
The mastermind behind that plan for the future is one of the towering figures from Racing’s past. His image hangs from not one poster, but two, in the hall at the academy.
Diego Milito won two Argentine titles with Racing as a player, though most of his success came in Italy, where he was the attacking spearhead of José Mourinho’s treble-winning Inter Milan team. He returned to his boyhood team to see out his career in 2014. After retiring, in 2016, he was appointed Racing’s technical secretary, an equivalent to a director of football role.
Milito’s goal, Huerta said, was to “make Racing a champion again.” He is on the cusp of doing just that: Racing sits atop Argentina’s Superleague, a first title since 2014 inching ever closer. Its journey, though, directed by Milito, has been unorthodox.
“All the time Milito was in Europe, he saw how they were working, and he tried to adapt some of the ideas he found,” Huerta said.
Scouting was central to that. One of Milito’s first appointments was Weiner, who had been working with his father, Gabriel, on his “mobile technical unit”: a freelance scouting operation, effectively, that carried out project work for European and North American clubs. “We had been commissioned by Bayer Leverkusen, Udinese, Chicago Fire and a few others,” Javier Weiner said. A Racing fan, he leapt at the chance to sign up permanently when Milito asked.
Huerta’s route was a little different. A journalist by training, he spent four years working at Clarín, Argentina’s biggest news outlet, before starting to work with Martí Perarnau, once an Olympian for Spain and now a prolific journalist, author and the biographer of Pep Guardiola.
Huerta’s connection with Perarnau allowed him to visit several of Europe’s most progressive clubs. “I talked to people from Dortmund, Sevilla, Barcelona, Olympique Marseille,” he said. “I went to watch Zinedine Zidane while he was coaching Real Madrid’s reserve team. I had read ‘Soccernomics’ and ‘Moneyball.’ I had some ideas on how to run a club.”
He started doing video analysis and statistics work for Racing. When Milito arrived, he spotted Huerta’s gift for languages and recruited him into his inner circle. He now acts as a bridge between the scouting operation, the first team and the academy. “We did not have a structure before,” Huerta said. “Now we have a clear vision of what we want the club to be.”
The best parallel he can find is with one of those clubs he visited on his tour of Europe: Sevilla, a team that has built sustained modern success among much bigger rivals by recruiting well and selling better.
Racing has always had a reputation for youth development — the club is known, in Argentina, as La Academia—and that remains central to Milito’s plan. In his office at the academy, Huerta keeps a map of all the areas of Argentina where he has searched for talent.
There has never been any shortage of that, of course — “Switzerland knows how to make watches, and we make players,” the grizzled academy director Miguel Gomis said — but there is a belief, too, that it can be done more effectively, more reliably.
“We do not see the mistakes we make because no matter how badly we do things, players come through,” Gomis said.
There is a focus, now, not on “training talent” — the endless slew of creative, attacking players that Argentina is famous for — but on “positions of concept,” the more defensive, more cerebral roles. “We want to create the players that Racing needs,” said Claudio Úbeda, a coach at the academy. “But also the players that Europe wants.”
Racing is looking further afield than any of its rivals for that raw material. It is, Huerta said, often the only Argentine team that sends scouts to international youth tournaments. It has started to recruit players from Colombia, Peru and Venezuela.
Just as significant, it has “formalized,” as Weiner put it, the other end of the process. “I remember seeing a couple of tall, blond guys in the crowd at one game,” Weiner said. “It turned out they were scouts from F.C. Copenhagen, in Denmark. There was nobody to help them get tickets to watch a player, so they just ended up behind the goal. We have changed that now.”
So new that there remains some suspicion about it. The concept of scouting remains alien to some. Huerta is regularly asked by colleagues from other teams why he is bothering to watch lower tier games or follow players from Venezuela. There are skeptics within the club, too; Milito’s revolution has not been entirely peaceful. Change does not come easily, even with such a potent figurehead. The team he has built, though, has the courage of its convictions. Racing can see the future; or its own, homemade version of it, at least.
Rory Smith is the chief soccer correspondent, based in Manchester, England. He covers all aspects of European soccer and has reported from three World Cups, the Olympics, and numerous European tournaments.@RorySmith
Supported by
In the Netherlands, thousands of fans turn up every year to watch IJsselmeervogels play S.V. Spakenburg. But can a local derby lose some of its spark when it earns a place on the soccer tourism circuit?
ByRory Smith
BUNSCHOTEN-SPAKENBURG, the Netherlands — Every seat, every perch, every conceivable inch of space is occupied. The two grandstands that run alongside the field at the Sportpark de Westmaat are full. The extra bleachers that have been put up for the occasion, no more than scaffold and gangplanks, are full.
Fans hang over railings and cram into corners, standing four or five deep, straining on their toes to get a decent view. Once all the feasible vantage points are gone, one or two decide that there is no other option than to head for the roof. It feels as if everyone in this sleepy seaside village, an hour or so southeast of Amsterdam, has turned out for the occasion, and several more besides.
Ronald Koeman, the coach of the Dutch national team, is here; so is Aad de Mos, the veteran former coach of Ajax. Fans, less illustrious, have traveled the length and breadth of the country to be here.
It is not normally like this. IJsselmeervogels — the team that calls the Sportpark home — ordinarily attracts crowds of around 1,500, or maybe 2,000 for a big game, according to Theo Muijs, the club secretary. Its games are shown only on regional television. It competes, after all, in the Tweede Divisie, Dutch soccer’s semiprofessional third tier.
Today, though, is an 8,000-capacity sellout, and there are reporters and camera crews from Fox Sports posted around the field, too. For those who could not get a ticket, the game is being broadcast live on national television. Not bad for a third-division game in a village of scarcely more than 20,000 people. “We will make as much money from today as we will from the rest of the season,” Muijs said.
The reason for that is simple: The visitor today is S.V. Spakenburg, a rival so local that the two clubs’ stadiums are all but contiguous. (They are both called the Sportpark de Westmaat, and share a parking lot; when the teams meet, Spakenburg’s players walk from their own home ground to the changing rooms at IJsselmeervogels.)
This game is widely regarded as the “biggest amateur derby in Holland,” said Rob Commandeur, a fan who has made the trip from Heinkenszand, not far from the Belgian border, just to see it. Given the scale of the crowd, and the interest, there is a compelling case to be made that description undersells it a little.
ACopa90 documentaryin 2016 labeled IJsselmeervogels-Spakenburg the “world’s biggest amateur derby (probably).” In the village, they regard this game as fiercer than even Ajax and Feyenoord, the country’s most famous rivalry. “It is the derby of derbies,” Jan de Jong, an IJsselmeervogels fan, said.
Spakenburg, a few hours before the game, does not quite give that impression. It is market day: Alongside the canal, stalls selling vast arrays of cheese and cold cuts do a steady trade. At the marina, beneath a forest of wooden masts, a couple of craftsmen whittle and plane away at their boat. Young men, wrapped up against the bitter cold, dangle fishing lines into the water.
Aside from the occasional flash of color — a red IJsselmeervogels scarf, a hat adorned with Spakenburg’s blue badge — most residents keep their affiliations hidden underneath thick jackets. One or two silken flags have been draped from balconies. Down the side streets, where each house boasts not just a number but a small plaque denoting the name of the family who call it home, a few more flutter from doorways. Often, red and blue sit side by side, in those places where loyalties are split.
There is a reason for the peace. Bars in Spakenburg are forbidden from selling alcohol until 5 p.m. on derby day, the legacy of sporadic outbreaks of violence in years gone by. Some suggest the problems were related to hooligans from professional teams — Ajax and ADO Den Haag, in particular — who used the game as an excuse to settle their own scores; others look a little closer to home.
Regardless, the effect of the alcohol ban has been pronounced. Rather than thronging the town, fans now tend to gather at house parties instead. “We started at 11,” de Jong said. “We ate fish. Also there was beer.” He is swaying, just a little, as he says it.
Occasional bursts of boisterous chanting echo around the streets, though the big celebration — an official fan party thrown by IJsselmeervogels fans — was held on an industrial estate a 40-minute walk away. That, too, you sense, is deliberate: A brisk walk in freezing temperatures has a conveniently sobering effect.
It is as kickoff approaches that the fans appear: dozens at first, then hundreds, a great tide walking toward the Sportpark, so many that it seems impossible that the village seemed empty just a few minutes earlier. Slowly, the stadium begins to fill. Finally, the show starts.
Those who grew up with the game have always regarded it as special. “You do not have a choice: You are either red or blue, from birth,” said Joran van Dierman, a red, here with his wife, Maureen, a blue. “Everyone remembers the first time they came to a derby.”
In recent years, though, the game’s reputation has grown, particularly among a certain type of soccer fan. It has become a destination game, a kind of hipster bucket-list item for anyone seeking a jolt of authenticity, something untainted by the sanitized, prepackaged corporate glamour of the world’s elite leagues. “It is quite a cool mix,” said Commandeur, here with a clutch of his teammates from their hometown club. “It is an amateur game, but with a more professional vibe.”
In the Netherlands, it is now what puts Spakenburg on the map. “I travel a lot for work, to Amsterdam, to Utrecht,” van Dierman said. “When people ask you where you are from, the first thing they say is: ‘Oh, Spakenburg. Are you a red, or are you a blue?’”
That fame, though, has spread well beyond the Dutch border. “We have had requests from fans from Belgium, Germany, Austria, everywhere,” said Henk van de Groep, IJsselmeervogels’s communications manager.
Muijs, too, has been inundated with requests. “There have been a lot of things on social media,” he said. “A few years ago, there was a list of the top 20 derbies in the world. Boca Juniors against River Plate was first. We were 19th. It’s not even a professional game!”
The game’s appeal is not the standard of play, but the theater that surrounds it. “It is a strong rivalry, but in a good way,” said Reinie van de Groep (no relation to Henk); she grew up here, but regards herself as a “purple.” “It is very humorous, very creative,” she said.
Fans of both clubs have, in the past, staged eye-catching stunts before the game. IJsselmeervogels fans released a live pig on Spakenburg’s field, a nod to their rivals’ reputation as the farmers’ team; Spakenburg responded by hiring a plane to release hundreds of inflatable toilet brushes over enemy territory. There have been banners depicting warlike Smurfs, and enormous, inflatable Vikings.
This edition’s efforts center on “La Casa de Papel,” a Spanish Netflix series about a heist at the Royal Mint in Madrid. Before the game, the home fans unveil a huge mural depicting several of their players in the show’s red hoodies, above the slogan “La Casa de los Pájaros”: the Bird Cage. On the field, six men, their faces concealed by Guy Fawkes masks — another nod to the series — fire toy machine guns into the air. Fans are handed masks as they enter. Even the away section, clad in blue, has them, though nobody can quite explain the significance of the reference.
There are streamers and glitter cannons and air dancers. The game kicks off 10 minutes late, in fact, because the display was so lavish that nobody seemed to have taken into account that all of the paraphernalia would have to be removed from the field. For much of the first half, players on one flank have to dodge not only opponents but the bright red streamers left littering the halfway line, too.
The game, almost inevitably, feels something of an afterthought. IJsselmeervogels — historically the more successful of the two teams, and chasing a championship again this season — takes the lead. Spakenburg equalizes a few minutes later. Early in the second half, the host is reduced to 10 men, its midfielder Maikel de Harder sent off for lashing out at a Spakenburg player. It peters out into a feisty, full-blooded tie.
By the end, the noise has abated a little. Fans start to filter out, clutching their masks as mementos. Perhaps the result has left everybody dissatisfied. Perhaps thoughts are drifting, now, to the lifting of the alcohol ban at 5 p.m.
A few fans confide that this has been a more low-key affair than they had been expecting, that the previous encounter this season — also a tie — was a little more colorful, a little more of an occasion. They wonder if the novelty has worn off, or if the reputation now weighs too heavily, if the expectations are impossible to match.
A few minutes after the game, the road out of Spakenburg is choked with traffic. Those who came from much further afield to watch the derby of derbies are starting to leave. They have had their weekend road trip, seen the world’s biggest amateur derby, ticked another item off the bucket list, devoured another experience. The locals walk home, to the houses with their names etched outside and the flags hanging from balconies, to clear up the detritus of the parties they hosted. Spakenburg will be quiet again soon, the same as ever. The game that defines it, though, is changing, an occasion that used to be exclusively local irrevocably altered, somehow, by its contact with the global.
Rory Smith is the chief soccer correspondent, based in Manchester, England. He covers all aspects of European soccer and has reported from three World Cups, the Olympics, and numerous European tournaments.@RorySmith
Supported by
ByReuters
OR YEHUDA, Israel — Darting between the goal posts with his striking white hair, 73-year-old Israeli Isaak Hayik set a new world record on Friday as the oldest person to play in a professional soccer match.
Hayik, who celebrates his 74th birthday next week, broke the record after playing as a goalkeeper in an afternoon game with Israel's Ironi Or Yehuda soccer club.
The Iraqi-born keeper was officially recognized in an award ceremony attended by representatives from the Guinness World Record organization.
"I'm ready for another game," said Hayik, who made some good saves in the team's 5-1 defeat to Maccabi Ramat Gan.
"This is not only a source of pride for me but also to Israeli sports in general," added Hayik, who moved to Israel when he was four years old.
The previous record was held by Robert Carmona of Uruguay, who in 2015 played a professional match with Uruguay's Pan de Azucar at the age of 53, an official adjudicator for Guinness World Records said.
Hayik's family were among the tens of thousands of Iraqi Jews who fled to Israel in the mid-20th century, following the country's creation in 1948.
His children spoke of their pride in their father's achievement. One of his sons said he and his father used to play together.
"I used to get tired before he did," Moshe Hayik, 36, said. "He is unbelievable."
(Reporting by Leon Malherbe in Or Yehuda. Writing by Rami Ayyub in Jerusalem.; Editing by Toby Davis)
Supported by
The competition’s third round, when the Premier League’s giants join the lower-level dreamers, has been devalued by disinterest. But there’s still joy if you know where to look.
ByRory SmithandTariq Panja
ACCRINGTON, England — Andy Holt is standing at the door to the bar, watching the celebrations unfold. On the field, Accrington Stanley’s players are in the middle of an impromptu lap of honor, pumping their fists and beaming broad smiles. John Coleman, their manager, is conducting the crowd’s chanting, soaking in their adulation.
Holt, the club’s owner, does not seek to join them, to bask in their reflected glory. But still, as fans start to leave, a steady stream heads toward him, hands outstretched, wanting to offer their congratulations, or share their glee.
He greets each one like an old friend. “You should come in here, it’s only a pound a pint,” he tells one. Another is reassured that the prize money for the victory will be reinvested in the team. “That’s £135,000, that is,” he says. “It’ll go straight into the squad.”
On one level, that is what the F.A. Cup means to a club like Accrington Stanley, and to a chairman like Holt. Though Coleman’s team is now thriving in League One — English soccer’s third tier — it is doing so on a fourth-tier budget. By beating Ipswich Town, which competes a division higher, in the third round of the world’s oldest cup competition, Accrington has earned around a tenth of its annual revenue in a single day.
For Holt, the bigger thrill, though, is what may be to come. Should Accrington be drawn to face one of the Premier League’s giants in the next round — Holt had hoped for Manchester United or Arsenal, though Monday night’s draw would later pair those two titans together — and should the game be selected for television, the rewards could approach £1 million: life-changing, season-defining, horizon-expanding money.
“There are not many chances for a club like us to get access to football’s fortunes,” Holt said. “The F.A. Cup is one of them. You could do a lot with a million pounds, around Accrington.”
Accrington was not the only club imagining those possibilities over the last four days. That has always been the charm of the F.A. Cup’s third-round weekend, traditionally the most romantic in England’s soccer calendar. This is the point when the teams from the country’s top two divisions, the Premier League and the second-tier Championship, enter the competition, alongside those from the lower tiers and any nonleague clubs that have survived an arduous campaign through the early rounds.
That sense of opportunity has long made it fertile ground for surprises. It is in the F.A. Cup’s third round that the lesser lights have the chance to bloody the noses of the great and the good, when the coddled elite come unstuck in airless, ramshackle stadiums and on haphazard, mud-ridden fields.
When they do, their conquerors gain a form of immortality:Hereford beating Newcastlein 1972;Sutton United overcoming Coventryin 1989;Wrexham’s win against Arsenalin 1992 — all of them now granted a place in the pantheon of giant-slayers, otherwise unremarkable names remembered in folklore by successive generations. If there is magic in the Cup, the spell is cast by third-round weekend.
This year — as ever — a handful of teams maintained the tradition: Oldham, Newport County and Gillingham beat Premier League opposition. Barnet, of the fifth-tier Conference, overcame Sheffield United, a team in contention for promotion to the Premier League next season.
By those standards, Accrington’s win barely counted as a shock: Ipswich Town is currently last in the Championship, enduring a miserable season.
“It will be F.A. Cup magic if we manage to win,” said Mark Pinkney, an Ipswich fan who had made the journey to Accrington with his father, Harold, and son, James.
The three generations had come to the low hills of Lancashire from England’s southeast coast because they hoped the Cup might provide a little “break” from the league.
That, to many, is precisely the problem. For all that third-round weekend means in the hearts of many English soccer fans, for all the memories it conjures, it is now taken as a truism that it has lost some of its mystique, some of its appeal.
Some fans, like Nick Mills, 43, a Grimsby Town supporter on his way to his team’s meeting with Crystal Palace of the Premier League, blame those teams who prioritize survival in the top flight over a shot at glory.
“Teams like Palace and Newcastle: they’re the ones that have killed it, the teams where it is about Premier League survival,” he said. “Knocking Palace out would be an upset, but you’re expecting a reserve team.”
Though the upsets still come, Mills is correct: those Premier League teams eliminated this year, as is now generally the case, were lacking most — if not all — of their first-choice players, many of them rested for what the club decided were more important games. Palace made it through, narrowly, in front of 6,000 traveling Grimsby fans, but it did so having made nine changes from its last Premier League game.
Others cast the blame on the Football Association itself: for kick-starting the competition’s demise by allowing Manchester United to opt out in 2000, in favor of playing in that year’s Club World Cup in Brazil; for toying with various ideas — like abolishing replays of tied matches — to bow to the wishes of those Premier League clubs that see the Cup as an unwelcome distraction. This year, the F.A. was fiercely criticized for scheduling games at seemingly random times across the weekend to meet the demands of an international television deal, and using other matches as test runs for a video assistant referee system.
“It’s a wonderful thing, the F.A. Cup,” Holt said. “It needs protecting.”
Wherever the fault, the effects are obvious. At Burnley’s meeting with Barnsley, the Premier League hosts had tried to encourage more fans to come by reducing ticket prices to £10 for adults and £5 for children. Though the visiting team had brought a healthy contingent, Turf Moor, Burnley’s raucous stadium, was noticeably quieter than normal. Swaths of seats remained empty.
Elsewhere, there were weakened teams named not only by the Premier League’s giants and those battling to avoid relegation from the top flight, but by those, like Leicester City, caught in the middle, and with nothing much else to play for. The trend is now mainstream: Championship teams often name weakened sides, too; the prize money on offer even for winning the F.A. Cup pales in comparison to the king’s ransom promotion to the Premier League would bring.
Looked at from a distance, it is hard to see much magic left: teams of reserves contesting games they do not care about in front of half-empty stadiums, for the right to stay in a competition everyone involved sees as an afterthought.
From close-up — at Burnley, at Accrington, at Crystal Palace — over the course of three games in eight hours on third-round Saturday, though, the picture changes. The Cup may not mean what it did; its halcyon days may be gone. But it still matters to some of those involved.
Not just to the teams trying to win it, as proved by the sight of Sean Dyche, the Burnley manager, rendered apoplectic by V.A.R.’s overturning a penalty given to his team just as his striker, Matej Vydra,started his run-up to take it.
But to the fans, too. “You’ll see a lot of kids today,” said Steve Wilkin, a program vendor sneaking glances at Grimsby-Palace at Selhurst Park. “Most of the ones you’ll see won’t be here at Premier League games.”
Cup tickets are cheaper, more accessible; as at Burnley, the demographic inside Selhurst Park on Saturday skewed younger than the economics of English soccer ordinarily allow.
For the Pinkney family and the rest of the 1,200 or so Ipswich fans who had made the 500-mile round trip to Accrington, north of Manchester, it was a chance to touch new territory.
“We’ve never played them before, ever,” Mark Pinkney said. “There’ll be a lot of people here today who want to tick the stadium off the list.”
The F.A. Cup may not have the prestige it once did; the annual discussion of how much better the Cup used to be may now be as much of a fixture of third-round weekend as the shocks and surprises. But it still provides opportunities: to visit new places, to see new teams, to welcome in new fans. It is still a place of possibilities.
“It’s still a thrill for us,” said Holt, back in Accrington.
Holt will have a little longer to cherish that feeling. Accrington will face the winner of a replay between the Southampton and Derby County in the fourth round. It is not quite the money-spinner he had hoped for, but there is more to the F.A. Cup than economics. There are memories to be made.
Tariq Panja reported from London.
An earlier version of this article misstated Coventry's status at the time of its loss to Sutton United in the 1989 F.A. Cup. Coventry won the Cup in 1987; it was not the holder at the time of its loss to Sutton United.
Rory Smith is the chief soccer correspondent, based in Manchester, England. He covers all aspects of European soccer and has reported from three World Cups, the Olympics, and numerous European tournaments.@RorySmith
Supported by
ByRory Smith
DORTMUND, Germany — All told, Marcel Schmelzer must have spent hours scouring the video, searching for some sort of tell, some kind of clue.
Schmelzer, Borussia Dortmund’s long-serving left back, has performed the ritual 16 times over the last decade, building up an unparalleled expertise in the field. He has pored over countless clips. He was hoping to find something, anything that would give him a little advance warning, a bit of a head start.
“I tried to find a pattern,” he said. Thus far, though, he has drawn a blank. Even after all these years, even after all those hours of study, even after all those games, the defender who knows Arjen Robben better than anyone else still cannot work out when, exactly, he is going to cut inside.
From the outside, it can seem that there are few more predictable players in world soccer than Robben. He has performed his calling card so often since he first joined Bayern Munich 10 years ago that it now bears his name — not just in Germany, but also in France, where the act ofcutting in from the right wing to shoot with the left footis known as Le Robben. The player acknowledged last month that he was proud to have his “own move.”
What is most remarkable, though, is that hisgo-to maneuverhas lost none of its power; the only surprise, now, is that he appears to retain his capacity to surprise.
Robben is, after all, deep into what will be his final season in Munich. He may make his final appearance in the Champions League for the club this week, should Bayern prove unable to get past Liverpool in a delicately poised last 16 tie on Wednesday at Munich’s Allianz Arena.
His time in Germany has been impressively successful: He has won six straight Bundesliga titles and a slew of domestic cups, and he scored the winning goal in the 2013 Champions League final. But it has also been admirably long. Robben is 35. It is 15 years since José Mourinho first signed him for Chelsea; 12 since he joined Real Madrid.
He remains, though, an integral part of one of soccer’s great powers, a winger of genuine menace, silken touch and searing speed. If Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo are this era’s leading men, then Robben is among the most prominent members of the supporting cast: instantly recognizable, a fixture on the game’s most exalted stage, hissignature movea regular feature of the latter rounds of the Champions League.
It is so familiar that it barely needs description. Robben sprints up the right wing, one arm outstretched for balance, head pulled back, legs whirring. Then, as he approaches the penalty area, he feints to his right and drops his shoulder, only to shift his weight and slip off to the left. The ball never leaves his control; his opponent is left grasping at shadows.
Robben glances up, and curls a shot across the goalkeeper. It does not always go in, of course, but it does sofrequently enoughthat Schmelzer is not the only one to have spent considerable time trying to work out how to stop it.
Here, though, comes the puzzle. Robben has been cutting left for years. His intent is apparent to all. Defenders know exactly what is in his mind, precisely what is coming, and yet remain powerless to stop it.
To Robben, two factors explain his continued success. Timing, he said in an interview with a handful of British newspapers last month,is one key: “If you do it at the right time, it still surprises them.” Variation, he has previously suggested,is equally important. “Doing the same thing over and over again without variation will not work,” he said. “If you never pass or dribble or go on the outside, cutting inside will stop working.”
To Schmelzer — who has had to deal with Robben in direct, face-to-face competition more than any other opponent — there is something else, however. He has noticed that Robben has leaned more heavily on his favored move in recent years, using the wing as a decoy to “open the path to the center.” It still works, though, because he “recognizes it when you block his path, and then he reacts accordingly; that is what makes him special.”
It is that ability to improvise that Ricardo Rodriguez identified, too. Rodriguez, a Swiss defender now with A.C. Milan, knows Robben almost as well as Schmelzer. According to Gracenote Sports, he has faced him 11 times during his career, in his time with Wolfsburg and F.C. Zurich.
“He is very fast, especially with the ball,” Rodriguez said. “That makes it very difficult to stop him. He is terribly fast when he cuts inside. The only way to try to stop him is to stay very close to him. If you don’t, he can hurt you any time.”
There is a reason for that. In 2010, a cognitive scientist named Shanti Ganesh, based at Radboud University in the Netherlands, conducteda studyinto Robben’s movement. She determined that Robben moves “a little faster than conscious knowledge.” A defender’s brain, Ganesh said, unconsciously follows Robben’s feints, even if it knows, deep down, that they are only feints. In the time it takes to rectify the error, Robben — as he was always going to, as everyone involved knew he was going to — has cut inside and taken a shot. “The player can still correct himself,” Ganesh said. “But that will always be a fraction too late.”
It is a theory that chimes with the empirical study conducted by Wendell, a Brazilian left back at Bayer Leverkusen. He has faced Robben 10 times since moving to Germany, behind only Schmelzer and Rodriguez.
“Normally, it is the same move, but it is also the move we are tired of seeing, running after, and not getting the ball,” he said. “There must be something he does. Maybe he waits for the last moment, I don’t know. Most of the time, I try to wait for his move, so I have a bigger chance of getting the ball back. If I don’t take my time, I have no chance. He’ll dribble past me.”
Like Schmelzer, Wendell has spent more time than he might like watching clips of Robben. Like Schmelzer, he remembers training sessions in the days leading up to games against Bayern in which the team worked on how to defend him: His danger is such that it can only be dealt with collectively.
Dortmund always had the same approach. “You need your teammates to back you up,” Schmelzer said. “We have to be honest: It is simply not possible to take him out of the match for the full 90 minutes. Jürgen Klopp always taught us that the problem is not losing a duel, but not covering it.”
When Schmelzer decided to go in for a tackle, he relied on his central defender, Mats Hummels, and his defensive midfielder, Sven Bender, to scurry across in support. It was not always enough: Robben, too, was not acting alone; he could always call on the threat of Philipp Lahm or, later, Joshua Kimmich streaking up the right wing to collect the ball on the overlap. Schmelzer had to be conscious of that, too.
Working out when to use the cut inside, and when it was merely a decoy, was always the challenge. Even after all these years, his opponents cannot tell when the move is coming. They have seen it before, and yet somehow every time feels like the first time. They can study the tapes, they can stay close, they can call for backup.
If none of that works, Wendell said, there is one last resort: “I try to get the ball back,” he said. “If I don’t, then I have to commit a foul.” It is when that fails — as it so often has — when he skips away too quickly, when he disappears in a flash, that Arjen Robben does what he has been doing for 15 years, does what he always does, and cuts inside.
An earlier version of this article misstated the gender of Shanti Ganesh. She is a woman, not a man.
Rory Smith is the chief soccer correspondent, based in Manchester, England. He covers all aspects of European soccer and has reported from three World Cups, the Olympics, and numerous European tournaments.@RorySmith
Supported by
On Soccer
ByRory Smith
MANCHESTER, England — A few weeks ago, before Manchester City’s serene season hit unexpected turbulence, David Silva ran into the parents of the club’s bright midfield hope, Phil Foden, after yet another routine Premier League win.
Silva is, both in private and in public, a quiet soul. He does not court the limelight — he consents to only one regular interview opportunity a year, a brief chat to promote tourism on the Canary Islands, where he grew up, in which he does his best to say nothing — or especially enjoy being the center of attention.
With Foden’s mother, Claire, though, he was effusive. He told her what a pleasure it was to train alongside her teenage son, and enthused at the prospect of just how good a player he thought Foden could become.
Less than a year after Foden had made his debut for City, Silva said he was already convinced that the 18-year-old had the potential to go on to be one of the best players in the world. His only hope, he told her, was that she might ask her son to “wait a couple of years” before blossoming. “Just to give me a chance,” he said.
There is a timeless quality to Silva. He turns 33 next week, but still seems the player he was when he first arrived in Manchester almost nine years ago. He is no less sharp, no less lively, no less fluent: “always in motion,” as his one time Spain teammate, Javi Martinez, once said. He still wears his brilliance lightly. He still sees no need to indulge in ornament or ostentation. His is a genius for simple things, done to perfection.
To his coach, Pep Guardiola, Silva is a “joy” to work with; to his teammates, as Kyle Walker put it, he is an “example.” He has been a central figure at City ever since he arrived in 2010, but if anything he is even more integral now, charged with knitting together all of the complex passing patterns Guardiola has drummed into his players.
It is no surprise that it was in his absence — as well as that of Fernandinho, another of City’s old stagers — because of a leg injury that City lost to Crystal Palace and Leicester City, offering Liverpool daylight at the summit of the Premier League, and turning the two teams’ meeting at the Etihad Stadium on Thursday into a game Silva and his teammates must win. “If we drop points, it’s over, almost impossible,” Guardiola said this week.
Even City, with all its resources, lacks something in Silva’s absence. “He is one of the most incredible players in the world at playing in the pockets,” Guardiola said of his playmaker earlier this season. “He is maybe the strongest in the world in those spaces. We try to attack those spaces: he is a master of it. Few players can do it.”
Silva’s talent is not his only source of influence: around the same time he was greeting Foden’s mother, Silva presented each of his teammates with a personalized Nintendo Switch console, inscribed with their initials, and two games. Silva is not much of a gamer himself, but he knew many of the younger players are; he felt the chance to play alongside and against each other might help the team bond on away trips.
The gesture was not advertised or announced to the team: the gifts came as a surprise. Silva made it as he plays a pass: with delicacy and discretion, not for its own sake but toward a greater goal.
Those are the traits on which he has built his career, that have led him to a World Cup title, two European Championships and three Premier League titles. But they are the characteristics, too, that may stop him from receiving the individual recognition he perhaps deserves.
Roberto Mancini, one of Guardiola’s predecessors at City and the manager who brought Silva to England from Valencia in 2010, always regarded his playmaker as the equal of Xavi and Andrés Iniesta. “If he had gone to Barcelona” in 2008, Mancini said, “everyone would be saying he is one of the best players in the world.”
Silva has rarely — if ever — been mentioned in that conversation, even in dispatches. Indeed, remarkably, in nine years in England he has only once — back in September 2011 — managed to be voted the Premier League’s player of the month. He has won that award as often as such luminaries as Nikica Jelavic, Adam Le Fondre and Connor Wickham. He has, needless to say, never been voted the country’s player of the year.
And yet there is a case to be made that Silva ranks not just among the finest players of this Premier League generation, but among the greatest-ever imports into English soccer.
True, he cannot match the transformative effect Eric Cantona had on the game when he arrived — first at Leeds United, in 1992, and then at Manchester United — and true, he has not scored as frequently or played as explosively as the likes of Thierry Henry or Didier Drogba.
He may not be as decorated as Peter Schmeichel — who picked up five Premier League titles at Manchester United — or produced as many moments of jaw-dropping wonder as Dennis Bergkamp. Unlike Cristiano Ronaldo, he has not led his team to the Champions League crown, or gone on to score more goals in that competition than anyone else.
There are other ways, though, to gauge greatness. Never mind that Silva has won more Premier League titles than Henry, and as many as Ronaldo and Patrick Vieira.
Much more significant is the fact that, over the last decade, nobody has created more goals in the Premier League than the elfin Spaniard; only two foreign players — Bergkamp and Cesc Fàbregas — have more assists in English history.
Never mind that he has lasted longer in the tumult of English soccer than almost any of his rival candidates (only Vieira remains ahead of him, for now). Far more important is that he has done so despite being adjudged, in some quarters, as too lightweight for the fray when he first arrived. Silva has — not uniquely, but more than most — changed the way the Premier League sees itself; he has played a role in ending the tyranny of the powerhouse. He has not just helped to define and refine the playing style with which City is now synonymous, but proved that small, technical players can thrive in England.
“You can see his quality from how long he has survived in the Premier League,” Guardiola said. “If you survive, it is because you are a better player. When he moves, it is clever, more intelligent. When you see things like he does, it is because you are more intelligent than the others.”
That he is so easily overlooked — when Alan Shearer nominated a player to enter that pantheon last year, he went for Silva’s teammate Sergio Agüero — is in part because of the person Silva is: shy, private, not given to grand public declarations of his genius.
But it is also because of the player he is. Silva does not pretend to be a great soloist; he does not play to the gallery or for his personal highlights reel. He is not especially quick or frighteningly strong or ruthlessly productive.
He is, instead, an embodiment of that old Guardiola maxim: He takes the ball; he passes the ball. The better he plays, the brighter others shine. It has been easy to lose sight of him, a player who seeks nothing but to be a part of the collective, but he has always been at the heart of it.
It is hard to tell, but he is slowly descending from the peak he has occupied for almost a decade. Even he thinks he has just a couple of years left before he is replaced. He may be right: Foden may go on to be one of the best in the world. Silva, though, will prove a tough act to follow.



