Supported by
ON TENNIS
ByChristopher Clarey
Not much head scratching is required when it comes to deciding how to start a wish list for tennis in 2019.
A sport that has long been concerned about punching below its weight spent too much of last year elbowing itself in the ribs as its too-numerous leaders traded blows and crossed purposes.
This is no way to run a niche sport concerned about market and mind share in a ruthlessly competitive global entertainment landscape. Improvement is all the more urgent with tennis’s biggest stars, Roger Federer and Serena Williams, both 37.
And so with a new season about to get serious with the start of the Australian Open on Monday, my No. 1 wish for tennis is unity. In an ideal world, that would mean unified governance.
“It will never happen, but what we need more than anything is a commissioner,” said Brad Gilbert, the longtime player, coach and analyst.
That would require each of tennis’s seven governing bodies to cede some of its authority, a situation that would probably require an existential threat to the game’s viability or profitability.
In an imperfect but still better world, unity could also mean a genuine players’ union — why not men and women together while we’re wishing? — that could make for more meaningful progress on tennis’s now-intractable issues through tough negotiations with those who own and operate the tournaments.
In the current system, the players and regular tour events are in partnership, an unusual arrangement in professional sports that can make consensus and change difficult.
Novak Djokovic, back at No. 1 and president of the ATP Player Council, has explored the concept. But for now, a union appears to be wishful thinking: too many legal and logistical hurdles.
But the sport can still do better at finding common ground in 2019.
Start with agreeing on a more coherent schedule that does not include three men’s team events within less than four months: the Laver Cup in September 2019, the revamped Davis Cup in November 2019 and the revived ATP Cup in January 2020.
Continue by creating a meaningful mixed men’s and women’s team event that will carry on the legacy of the Hopman Cup. Further embrace tennis’s ability to showcase men’s and women’s stars in the same events — a longtime strength that other sports are interested in replicating.
Reach an agreement on coaching that will apply to all sectors of the pro game. The women’s tour currently allows on-court coaching visits once a set while the men’s tour and main-draw Grand Slam events do not allow any coaching during play.
“If we have it, we should have it nonstop,” said Simona Halep, the women’s No. 1. “If we don’t, we should stop completely.”
Halep prefers letting players solve their own tactical and psychological issues under pressure, as do I and plenty of others. But the existing coaching situation is confusing to fans and disorienting to women’s players, who have to change routines in the tournaments that matter most. In light of the difficulty for umpires to fully police player-coach communication, perhaps allowing signals from the box and only the box is the right compromise.
More tennis wishes for 2019:
ELIMINATE LETS ON SERVESA point or a tournament can already end with a net-cord winner during a rally when a groundstroke, volley or overhead hits the tape and trickles over. Why should a serve be treated any differently? This will also speed play, slightly reduce costs (sensors are used to detect lets) and bring pro tennis in line with college tennis.
ELIMINATE PLAYERS’ RIGHTto catch a service toss without penalty. If a player chooses not to hit the ball once tossed, it should count as a missed serve. This will also speed play and, in making the ideal toss more elusive, take away a smidgen of a server’s advantage.
MAKE A MORE CONCERTED EFFORTto push tournaments to use balls from the same brands or at least with the same characteristics during the different surface swings: hard court, clay court, grass and indoor. Few things irritate players more than significant disparity between balls week to week, and there is concern that abrupt changes can lead to injury. The ATP is working on this issue. Time to hurry up.
PROVIDE PLAYERS AND COACHESwith detailed information about court speed and ball characteristics well in advance of a tournament to allow competitors to better prepare. This might also help reduce injuries.
PERMIT FANS TO ENTER A STADIUMas the players change ends after the first game of a set. The current policy, which typically does not allow fans to enter until the changeover after the third game, leaves too many paying customers waiting for too long.
COOPERATE TO DEVELOP JUST ONE MAJOR RATING SYSTEMfor tennis players, be they professional or amateur. The Universal Tennis Rating, with the backing of strong private investors, is making inroads. But the International Tennis Federation is also creating its own rating system and algorithm. Such a system is an important concept that could simplify and improve the transition to the professional game. Why create more tennis confusion with competing systems instead of joining forces to produce one that will be universally accepted?
FAIRER USE OF WILD CARDSThe Grand Slam tournaments should no longer allow reciprocal wild card entry to players from other Grand Slam nations. It is elitism. And the new-look Davis Cup should definitely not be granting two wild cards to its 18-team final phase. It is anti-competitive.
MORE CONSISTENCY IN APPLYING THE RULESon coaching violations, the timing of line-call challenges and the eligibility of convicted administrators to serve on the ITF board of directors.
A MEN’S GRAND SLAM SINGLES CHAMPION UNDER AGE 30(there are none active at the moment) and a new French Open men’s champion. And a first major title for South Africa’s Kevin Anderson, which would be the first for an African in singles in 38 years.
ONE MORE MAJORfor Petra Kvitova, who has come back so inspirationally from adversity. Another chance in a major final for Madison Keys to conquer her nerves and play to her potential.
MORE VARIETY IN COURT SPEEDSon tour, fewer injury timeouts. More open roofs, less pain for Andy Murray. More drop-shot returns, fewer tweeners. More integrity, fewer conflicts of interest. More conversations, fewer social-media posts. More players, fewer hitters.


Supported by
ByReuters
(Reuters) - Madison Keys overcame some uncharacteristically poor serving and elevated her game late on to edge fellow American Sloane Stephens 7-6(6) 4-6 6-2 and advance to the semi-finals of the Charleston Open on Friday.
Both players struggled with their serves in a match that included 13 breaks but it was Keys who was able to cut down on the errors and step up the intensity in the third set, which she won when Stephens sent a backhand long.
The match on the green clay also featured a seesaw first set tie-breaker in which Keys jumped out to a 4-0 lead before Stephens stormed back with six straight points.
Stephens failed to convert either of the two set points she had on her serve and Keys unleashed a blistering cross court forehand winner to capture the hour-long first set.
"It's always tough to play a friend and it kind of shows at times like that," Keys said of the wild first set tie-breaker.
"It was up and it was down and it was just kind of crazy."
The win was a first for Keys over Stephens, who came out on top in their semi-final match up at last year's French Open and in the 2017 U.S. Open final.
Next up for Keys is Puerto Rican Monica Puig, who crushed 29 winners to topple American Danielle Collins in their quarter-final to end the day.
The 25-year-old Olympic gold medalist from San Juan fired down six aces to book her first semi-final trip since the Connecticut Open in August.
Former world number one Caroline Wozniacki looked like she had fully recovered from the illness that sidelined her for two months earlier this year, playing nearly perfect tennis to down Maria Sakkari 6-2 6-2.
Wozniacki, the 2011 champion in Charleston, smacked 15 winners to just eight unforced errors and looked particularly sharp returning serve, where she moved briskly and attacked Sakkari's second serves.
The only hiccup came in the match's 16-minute final game, where Wozniacki needed five match points before she was able to break the young Greek's service again to win the tie.
The fifth-seeded Dane will be a heavy favorite in her semi-final showdown on Saturday against Petra Martic, who upset Belinda Bencic 6-3 6-4 in the morning match.
Wozniacki has never dropped a set to the Croatian in five career meetings.
(Reporting by Rory Carroll, editing by Nick Mulvenney)
Supported by
ByNaila-Jean Meyers
On March 2 in Dubai, Roger Federer joined Jimmy Connors as the only male tennis players in the open erawith 100 career titles. With a victory on Sunday over John Isner in thefinal of the Miami Open, Federer, 37, is now eight titles behind Connors’s record of 109.
Here’s a look at Federer’s 101 titles.
The date Federer won his first career title, at age 19, in Milan, defeating Julien Boutter of France, 6-4, 6-7 (7), 6-4. Federer was ranked 27th at the time, Boutter 67th. Boutter reached only two finals on the ATP Tour, winning one, and reached a career-high ranking of 46th. His last tour event was Wimbledon in 2004, a tournament Federer won. (The Milan tournament no longer exists.)
Number of Grand Slam titles — eight at Wimbledon, six at the Australian Open, five at the United States Open and one at the French Open. His most recent came at the 2018 Australian Open.
The number of times he has won the tournaments in Halle, Germany, and his hometown, Basel, Switzerland — his most of any events.
Number of titles on hard courts, most of any surface. (Hard courts are the most common surface on tour.) He has won 18 tournaments on grass and 11 on clay. His first title, in Milan, is one of only two on indoor carpet.
Most titles in one year, in 2006. The first came against Gaël Monfils in Doha, Qatar, in January; the last against James Blake at the Masters Cup, the former name of the year-end finals, in Shanghai in November.
The only year since 2001 in which Federer has not won a tournament. He sustained a knee injury in January and shut down his season in late July in order to fully recover.
Number of countries in which Federer has won a title, including Japan, Qatar, Sweden, Canada, Portugal, Turkey and the Netherlands.
Number of different opponents, from 25 different countries, who Federer defeated in finals — including Novak Djokovic, Jiri Novak, Philipp Kohlschreiber, Mark Philippoussis, Andre Agassi, Igor Andreev, David Nalbandian and Nikolay Davydenko. Twenty-five of those opponents are now retired, according to the ATP.
Number of times he has beaten Rafael Nadal in a final, most of any opponent. Who’s No. 2? Andy Roddick, with seven.
Number of times he won a tournament final in straight sets.
Length of his shortest title-clinching win, a 6-2 6-2 victory over David Goffin in Basel in 2014.
Length of his longest title-clinching win,a 5-7, 7-6 (6), 7-6 (5), 3-6, 16-14 victoryover Roddick in the 2009 Wimbledon final. The victory gave Federer his 15th major title, breaking Pete Sampras’s record.
His lowest ranked opponent in a final, but it was a familiar name. On Oct. 2, 2005, Federer, then 24, defeated 18-year-old Andy Murray, 6-3 7-5, in the final of the Thailand Open in Bangkok. It was the first of 25 career meetings between the two, and the first ATP Tour final of Murray’s career.
Number of times Federer defeated Ivan Ljubicic in a tournament final. Ljubicic, 40, is now one of Federer’s coaches.
Number of times Federer has lost in a tournament final, missing a chance to add to his trophy case.
Ben Rothenberg contributed reporting.
Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — At 40, Bob Bryan can dive for volleys again. He can turn, twist and slap fast-twitch returns. He can also win more titles: He partnered with his twin brother, Mike, and triumphed at the Delray Beach Open and the Miami Open in the last six weeks.
It is all beginning to feel so familiar that Bob Bryan, one of the greatest doubles players in history, often forgets that he now has a mostly metal right hip.
“When I take the towel off, and I walk by a mirror, I go: ‘Whoa! Look at that scar!’” he said. “I have a 10-inch scar, and without that scar, I wouldn’t even know it’s in there.”
Tennis has long produced first-rate comeback tales. It has been 30 years since Thomas Muster, the intense Austrian, whacked groundstrokesin a custom-designed chairdesigned to protect his postoperative left knee, which was injured when a drunken driver plowed into Muster’s parked vehicle at the tournament in Key Biscayne, Fla.
Muster returned to the tour and reached No. 1.
Bryan’s renaissance at an age when most tennis stars have long since retired is certainly one for the short list, too.
It has been less than a year since he was hobbling down the boardwalk in Santa Cruz, Calif., with his wife, Michelle, certain that his remarkable career was over. He was concerned, above all, about getting healthy enough to play with his three young children.
“I couldn’t walk for more than five minutes,” he said.
The orthopedic surgeon Edwin Su resurfaced Bryan’s hip on Aug. 2 at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York and explained that, if all went very well, Bryan could envision returning to tournament play eight months later.
He returned to action in five months and, now at the eight-month mark, is winning significant tournaments.
“What Bob is doing is incredible,” Su said in a telephone interview on Monday. “He really is demonstrating what determination and his hard work can accomplish with a new implant.”
“Incredible” is quite a word choice from a surgeon who has performed more than 4,000 such procedures. A few others were on professional athletes trying to save their careers, including the former major league pitcher Colby Lewis.
But no professional tennis player has had this procedure and returned to the fore, although Andy Murray, who underwent the same type of operation in January in London after plenty of chatting and texting with Bryan, may try to do the same.
“The things that make Bob Bryan great, you don’t know if you are going to lose that with an artificial joint and surgery,” Su said. “It’s amazing to see he doesn’t seem to have lost any of it and in fact is now able to play without pain.”
David Macpherson, the Bryans’ longtime coach, said Bob was playing like the “30-year-old Bob.”
“He’s exploding to poaches like the old days when he would just steal points from incredible cross-court returns by flashing across the net with the speed of light and picking off balls,” Macpherson said in Miami. “I also feel he’s a little more confident on the return, letting it go and doing more damage than before, and he is still serving just as nasty. So I really feel he’s in a great place right now, where he’s just enjoying his life and loves his family but is getting a second lease on tennis.”
After Bob’s hip problem became acute in Madrid last May, Mike went on to winWimbledonand theUnited States Openwith Jack Sock. Bob attended their practices in New York while using a cane. But there was no doubt the twins would reunite on court if Bob could recover.
“With all the success Mike was having with Jack in the majors, Bob just handled it all with so much class and was so supportive of Mike in that time,” MacPherson said.
Doubles has been deeply overshadowed in the modern era, with the biggest stars like Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal focusing on singles in Grand Slam tournaments. But in a parched environment, the Bryans — Mike the right-hander, and Bob the lefty — have managed to carve out a rich niche with their winning ways and personalities.
They have enthusiastically gone above and beyond to sign just about every autograph and pose for just about every selfie, but Bob is reaching a new audience now.
“I talk to probably three or four people a week, people who get my number and call me about hip problems,” he said. “A professional soccer player in Australia. I’m getting hit up by people all the time.”
He said he had spoken with Murray, the former world No. 1 from Britain, most recently about a week ago.
“He was asking me a lot of questions in the early weeks, because obviously those are the weeks where you are not feeling great and probably a little concerned,” Bryan said. “But I think he’s probably feeling really good right now.”
Murray has posted video of himself on social media lightly hitting tennis balls. But returning in singles, with full-court coverage required, is a more daunting prospect.
“I think a three-out-of-five-set singles match is almost close to 50 times more physical than doubles,” Bryan said. “It’s going to really challenge Andy, the movement. But I can jump. I can lunge, and I am not sore after matches.”
As Murray debated whether to have surgery, Bryan put him in touch with Su, who said Murray was an ideal candidate for the procedure. Murray ultimately chose to have it done closer to home by Sarah Muirhead-Allwood, a leading British hip surgeon..
Can he come back and play singles at the highest level?
“I think he would be able to,” Su said.
Hip resurfacing is not a total hip replacement. It calls for shaving a thin layer of damaged bone off the ball of the hip joint and replacing it with a metal cap — “like crowning a tooth,” Su said.
A metal socket is also put in place. “When Bob refers to it as his metal hip, it is truly metal,” Su said.
Bryan credited Su, an avid tennis player, for his success so far.
“People tell me this surgery comes down to millimeters,” Bryan said. “I’ve talked to people who had different doctors and have done the same procedure, and they feel like crap.”
Su said he believed Bryan’s recovery had been accelerated in part by the use of a relatively new rehabilitation tool: ananti-gravity treadmill, which supports a player at the hips with an inflatable lower-body compartment and reduces the risks of fractures in the recovery phase.
“You can un-weight the body to 60 percent to 70 or 80,” Su said.
Su saw Bryan compete in the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, Calif., last month.
“I love it, just to see what he’s able to do,” Su said. “I cringe a little bit when he dives, but he’s done it several times, and no worse for the wear.”
Will such acrobatics and the other rigors of professional tennis put Bryan at greater risk of requiring follow-up surgery down the road?
“That’s a really good question we don’t have the answer to,” Su said. “We don’t have enough data in terms of how it would hold up to activity such as this. This has been done now for almost two decades, so there are some very active patients out there, and activity doesn’t seem to make it wear out. We’re drawing from the experiences of recreational athletes.”
The Miami title was the Bryans’ 118th together on tour. They had once planned on retiring after the 2012 Olympics and were close to retirement at the 2017 Australian Open. But such plans are on hold, even with their 41st birthday looming on April 29.
“Now we’re looking at Tokyo in 2020,” Bob said of the next Olympics, while emphasizing that “we never wanted to play until we were 45 or 46.”
Skepticism is definitely permitted at this stage.
“I know,” Bob said with a chuckle. “My wife doesn’t believe me, either.”




Supported by
ByKaren Crouse
MELBOURNE, Australia — In a riveting Australian Open women’s final on Saturday, Petra Kvitova tried unsuccessfully to shake Naomi Osaka. Kvitova earned five break points in the first set, which she could not convert, and saved three championship points in the second, which she ultimately was unable to capitalize on.
Osaka refused to fade away. Later, as the Rod Laver Arena crowd celebrated Osaka’s 7-6 (2), 5-7, 6-4 victory, Kvitova looked around to congratulate her opponent — and couldn’t find her anywhere.
“Well done, Naomi,” Kvitova said, craning her neck to look behind her. “Where are you?”
Every little thing Osaka does on the court inexorably draws the eye to her, but take the racket out of her hand and she visibly shrinks from the spotlight. Born in Japan and raised in the United States by a Japanese mother and a Haitian father, she was asked in an interview on Australian television if she was ready to become the face of the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo.
“Yikes,” she said, wincing. “Hopefully for their sake they don’t do that.”
How can they not?
Osaka came into this tournament last year ranked No. 72. When the new world rankings come out on Monday, Osaka, 21, the reigning United States Open champion, will become the first singles player, male or female, from Japan to reach No. 1. The retired Chinese star Li Na might as well have been passing a torch when she presented Osaka with the Daphne Akhurst Memorial Cup in the on-court trophy presentation.
Li, a two-time major winner, rose to No. 2, behind Serena Williams, shortly after winning the 2014 Australian Open. For five years, no singles player from Asia had climbed higher.
Osaka, the first woman since Jennifer Capriati in 2001 to win her first two major titles back to back, does not appear to be going anywhere but forward.
When Osaka defeated Williams in the U.S. Open final in September, she was the eighth different woman since the 2017 Australian Open to win a Grand Slam title. By consolidating her victory in New York with her performance in Melbourne, Osaka demonstrated that she has staying power.
Osaka’s victory over Williams, in retrospect, seems to have represented a coronation of sorts, one queen ceding the throne to her successor. That idea got lost inthat final’s chaotic finish, when the chair umpire, Carlos Ramos, warned Williams about a coaching infraction, setting off a chain of events that thrust Williams into the spotlight andOsaka into the shadows.
“Definitely she is a great one,” Kvitova, a two-time Wimbledon champion, said of Osaka. “We’ll see what the future will bring. But for sure she has probably everything that has to be there to play her best tennis.”
Kvitova, 28, was the same age that Osaka is now in 2011 when she won her first Wimbledon title. It took her three years to return to a Grand Slam final, and she took the title again at Wimbledon in 2014.
“I probably wasn’t really ready to win it, to be honest,” said Kvitova, who spoke of struggling to adjust to increased expectations — and not just from the public.
“You’re thinking like you have to win every single match because you just won a Grand Slam,” she said, adding, “I put a bit more pressure than I should.”
Osaka also expects a lot of herself. It is what drove her in the past year to create more spin on her forehand, which produced eight winners in the deciding set on Saturday. She has also worked on the placement, and not just the pace, of her serve, also to great effect; she recorded nine aces in the final to finish the tournament with 59, which was 22 more than the next-highest woman.
And against Kvitova, Osaka was able to corral her emotions after the second set got away from her, which hasn’t always been her strong suit. She lost in the semifinals of a tuneup event in Brisbane after she worked herself into a fury because she felt it was a match that no major champion should lose.
Rain was in the air in Melbourne Park — a few drops fell late in the third set, prompting the roof to be closed for the end of the match. But Osaka can create her own weather system, and the storm clouds were gathering between her ears in the second set as Kvitova became more aggressive with her groundstrokes and pushed Osaka deeper behind the baseline.
The power game will be on display in this year’s women’s U. S. Open final when two of the hardest hitters in the game, Serena Williams and Naomi Osaka, square off. It will be the first Grand Slam final for Osaka who has burst onto the scene with one of the most powerful forehands in women’s tennis.
As the second set wore on, Osaka rubbed her temples, glowered at her racket and, at one point, turned her back on Kvitova and took deep breaths, trying to gather herself. After losing the last four games, Osaka took a bathroom break to regroup before the deciding set, and left the court in tears.
While she was gone, Osaka said, she reminded herself that Kvitova was an excellent player. She told herself she had to expect a hard-fought battle, especially after the long and winding path Kvitova had traveled to get to the final, her first since she sustained a career-threatening injury while fighting off a knife-wielding burglar in her Czech Republic apartment in late 2016.
“I can’t really act entitled,” Osaka said. “To be playing against one of the best players in the world, to lose a set, suddenly think that I’m so much better than her, that isn’t a possibility.”
Osaka’s pep talk to herself was effective. In the third game of the third set, she broke Kvitova. “I literally just tried to turn off my feelings,” Osaka said.
She has won 60 consecutive matches in which she has taken the first set, but don’t ask her to explain how she does it. Talking is not one of her talents, Osaka said. “Like in my day-to-day I might speak like 10 sentences,” she said.
Osaka grimaced through the trophy presentation, which she was able to laugh about afterward. “I forgot to smile,” she said. “I was told to smile and I didn’t. I was panicking.”
Osaka forgot a lot of the reminders she had written down on a sheet of paper — just in case she won and had to deliver a speech. Osaka is shy but thoughtful; reserved but disarmingly revealing.
Describing the third set, she said, “I just felt kind of hollow, like I was a robot, sort of. I was just executing my orders, like I just did what I’ve been practicing my whole life.”



Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — After another day of big serves and topspin forehands in the desert sunshine, just about everyone appeared to get what they wanted: a 39th match between Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal.
The question is, will it actually happen?
Federer, despite being the elder at 37, looks readier to rumble. Between Dubai and Indian Wells, he has won nine straight matches and 15 straight sets and artfully and uneventfully dispatched the unseeded Hubert Hurkacz, 6-4, 6-4, in Friday’s first quarterfinal of the BNP Paribas Open.
But Nadal had to dig much deeper to wriggle free of the firm grip and aggressive game of Karen Khachanov, the brawny young Russian who pushed him hard in the third round of last year’s United States Open.
This time, Nadal prevailed, 7-6 (2), 7-6 (2), but only after Khachanov stretched him repeatedly with huge serves and whipping forehands and only after Nadal needed on-court treatment and tape for pain in his long-troublesome right knee.
And there lies the problem with planning your day or, depending on the time zone, your night around watching No. 39.
Nadal remains one of the greatest, in-the-moment competitors in any sport, but his recent record in hardcourt tournaments is a downbeat litany of withdrawals, retirements and anticlimaxes.
It remains an open question if he will feel hearty enough to play Saturday afternoon’s semifinal. He does not have a day off to recover. He also has the rest of the 2019 season to consider, including his sacrosanct season within a season on clay that is scheduled to start next month in Monte Carlo.
“Of course my goal and my idea is to be ready for tomorrow,” Nadal said after pursing his lips and shaking his head.
But he also knows from long experience with patellar tendinitis that being ready is no sure thing.
“I cannot guarantee how I will feel when I wake up tomorrow,” he said. “But the desire to play a match like this against Federer is always very special, and it’s even more special if we’re both at a high level and at 100 percent. Hopefully it will be that way, above all for me but also for the fans on site and for fans in general. I hope I will be able to play aggressively. I need to be ready to react very quickly and to have everything in place to be able to succeed. If not, it will be very difficult.”
Nadal and Federer first played in Miami in 2004, but they have not met since October 2017, when Federer beat Nadal in the final of the Shanghai Masters. Federer went 5-0 against Nadal in 2017, a resurgent season for both men, after upgrading his ability to attack with his single-handed backhand.
That run of success has narrowed the big edge that Nadal once held in their rivalry; he now leads by 23-15.
“I don’t think those five matches matter that much, to be honest,” Federer said of the 2017 victories. “A lot of time has gone by, unfortunately maybe for the rivalry for us, or for me. It’s always better to keep on maybe playing against him.”
Federer started this season by failing to retain his title at the Australian Open but has responded by going on a roll. After winning his 100th career title in Dubai, Federer is now two victories from his 101st. To get there, he may first have to deal with the man who has been his friendly rival for 15 years and who remains a friend: The two had coffee at Federer’s rented home last week to discuss the state of the tennis world.
“Different styles, different ways to understand the sport,” Nadal said. “And at the same time, two players with a good relationship after all the things that we went through in our careers, competing for the most important things.”
In his first match against Hurkacz, a rangy and powerful 22-year-old from Poland, Federer looked loose from the start as he tested the full range of his skill set.
There was the usual: wickedly sliced backhands, blocked returns and first serve-forehand combination punches. There was also the unusual: chip and charge tactics, serve-and-volley on second serve and no-look flicked backhand overheads.
But it will be hard to be quite so relaxed and experimental against Nadal, whose ability (when healthy) to extend rallies and take command of them with his left-handed, topspin forehand is an entirely different, though much more familiar, challenge.
The two did not play any of the same regular ATP Tour events in 2018, and they did not face off in the three Grand Slam tournaments that they both played: the Australian Open, Wimbledon and the United States Open.
Federer was asked if, after all these years, the matchup with Nadal still gave him more of a thrill than facing an unknown rising player.
“I think a combination,” he said. “If it was only Rafa, I wouldn’t enjoy that as well. I think having the mix is the magic really for me. Playing against young guys to eventually get to Rafa, that’s exciting.”
It was quite an achievement for Nadal to get to Federer through the 22-year-old Khachanov. He was visibly hampered by his knee trouble, which first required treatment on court with Khachanov leading by 2-1 in the second set. Visibly slower and unable to push off as powerfully with his legs to serve, he still found a way to grind and win.
“It’s a special victory considering the way I was feeling,” Nadal said.
Playing with pain has unfortunately become close to the rule on hardcourts for Nadal, who has long complained and warned about the physical toll of hardcourt play.
Nadal, 32, conceded that part of the problem was playing more than 1,100 matches in his career, not just playing on hardcourts. But he also pointed out that other sports tended to be played regularly on grass or on other more forgiving surfaces.
“I love to play on hard, but probably my body doesn’t love it that much,” he said. “And my feeling is there are a lot of players that love to play on hard, true, but their bodies don’t love to play on hard, either.”
He is also concerned about the price he and others might pay in retirement. “When I see some old legends walking around the tour,” he said, “it’s tough.”



Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MELBOURNE, Australia — Lucas Pouille, the brightest young star in men’s tennis in France, was flickering.
Pouille, 24, reached a career-high ranking of No. 10 in March, but did not win more than two matches consecutively after that, finishing the year with a 14-17 run. Playing without inspiration or belief, he slipped to No. 32 by the end of the season.
“I lost confidence, and then I was not enjoying so much being on court, being on tour,” he said. “I didn’t really want to play tennis.”
He had to find a solution, he said. “I had to find my joy of being on court.”
Pouille split with Emmanuel Planque, his coach of six years, in November. Pouille, who had yearned to take a break from the tour but decided to finish the season so he could play in the Davis Cup final, was on his own for eight days. When he did pick up a racket, it was only to play minitennis with friends.
But on the Monday after the Davis Cup final, which France lost to Croatia, he met with his team’s captain-in-waiting, Amélie Mauresmo.
Pouille had another offer: Coach him instead.
“When we were talking to each other, it was this couple hours of talking that really had me thinking,” Mauresmo said. “He had me thinking that he’s ambitious, that he wants to do everything in order to be as good as possible. He kind of convinced me with what he was saying, that he was ready to do all the efforts and the hard work that are going with being at the top, with digging deep to be at your best.”
Stepping away from the Davis Cup position before she even started was not an easy decision for Mauresmo, especially considering the excitement over her appointment as the country’s first female captain. But it was made easier, she said, by the radical changes coming to the competition this season, which will reduce the final rounds to a World Cup-style format played at one site, with three matches of best-of-three sets in each pairing, instead of five matches in a best-of-five format.
“I think the captain’s role will be really reduced,” Mauresmo, 39, said. “What was interesting for me was all the weeks of preparations, the three days of competition, the best-of-five, building a team throughout a year, and the home-and-away. For me, I grew up watching that. I grew up having the emotions that go with it.”
“So I have no doubt that it will be a good show, a good competition for the crowd, and they will probably put on a big show or whatever. But as a captain, I didn’t feel that the role was that important.”
Pouille said he was encouraged by the belief Mauresmo showed in him when she left such a high-profile opportunity behind.
“That’s what I wanted to have with me: someone who believes in me, and who believes we can go very far together,” Pouille said. “I’m very happy that she’s part of it now, and we can work together, we can have the best results possible.”
Pouille is the only man in the ATP Tour’s top 100 currently coached by a woman outside his immediate family, but he said Mauresmo’s gender was not a consideration in his decision to hire her.
“For me, it doesn’t matter if it’s a man, woman, grandfather, grandmother — I don’t care,” he said. “As long as they know what they’re talking about. In women’s sports or men’s sports, in the end you’re dealing with the same stuff on the court.
“Mentally, it’s the same stuff. Technically, she knows tennis. She knows what I need to do on the court to be better. For me, that’s what is important.”
Pouille’s choice of Mauresmo was the second high-profile hiring of a female coach in men’s tennis this decade. The first was in 2014, when Andy Murray also hired Mauresmo.
Pouille’s decision generated far less second-guessing than Murray’s, which was met with skepticism from both the news media and fellow players.
“The pressure with Andy was tremendous, and the criticism that went with it was huge,” Mauresmo said. “I knew I had a lot to prove, and I knew that every match he would play would be about the job I’d done, or not done, or could do better. That was making it pretty difficult, but pretty challenging as well, and I worked really, really hard.”
Pouille said many of the queries that came with his choice were more inane than negative.
“A lot of people have asked me: ‘Is it different that she’s a woman? What do you do — can she come in the locker room?’” he said. “But what is important is what’s happening on court, what’s happening to get ready for the match, and what happens after the match. I don’t care who is in the locker room.”
Pouille said that, for now, he appreciated the lack of wasted time in his practice sessions with Mauresmo, and also her drive and willingness to join him in his various fitness and running drills.
“You can see on the court that she’s a champion,” he said. “The way she is on the court, the way she’s committed to it, it’s just remarkable.”
Pouille is hoping that Mauresmo’s coaching can help him return to the top 10. Over the past three decades, French men’s tennis has packed the sport’s peloton, but it has struggled to catapult anyone into regular championship contention.
Pouille is one of five active Frenchmen who can claim to have made the top 10, joining Richard Gasquet, Gilles Simon, Gaël Monfils and Jo-Wilfried Tsonga. Together, they have reached only one Grand Slam final in the past decade: when Tsonga finished as the runner-up at the 2008 Australian Open.
Mauresmo says she probably has particular credibility in French tennis as a two-time Grand Slam singles champion and a former No. 1 player, accomplishments that outshine those of all the country’s other players — male or female — in her lifetime. But she is uncertain whether most men would be ready to hire a woman with less than hall-of-fame credentials.
“Probably not yet,” she said. “Maybe not, but it will come. Maybe not in the next two, three, five years, but it will come.”
Patience also was required as Pouille started his 2019 season. He opened the year by losing all three matches he played at the Hopman Cup, as well as another at the ATP tournament in Sydney. But on Tuesday at the Australian Open, he won his opening match convincingly, 6-1, 7-5, 6-4, over Mikhail Kukushkin.
Though he was relieved by the win, Pouille said his confidence in his choice of coach had never wavered.
“I know it’s going to take time, coming from a year where it has been quite difficult for me,” he said. “But I decided to work with Amélie because I trust her.”


Supported by
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — There was nothing Stefanos Tsitsipas could do.
He tried pressing forward, only to see Rafael Nadal’s whizzing replies fly beyond his reach.
He tried staying patient, only to find himself being run across the baseline like a jack rabbit with a one-handed backhand.
He tried simply to hang on, hoping against hope that his legendary opponent would grant an opening, a reprieve, a string of games, maybe a set. Nadal did no such thing.
On Thursday night, Nadal once again provided every hard-hitting answer in a match at this tournament against an upstart opponent. This time he pummeled Tsitsipas, 6-2, 6-4, 6-0, moving with brutal efficiency into his fifth Australian Open final.
“I am playing well today,” he said when it was over, assessing the match with a bland understatement.
His inexperienced opponent offered a fuller, more exacting description. “It felt,” Tsitsipas said, “like a different dimension of tennis.”
[The women’s final is set: Petra Kvitova will face Naomi Osaka.]
On Sunday — having not lost a single set all tournament and looking in as fine a form on hardcourts as he has in his career — Nadal will play for a second title at Melbourne Park, 10 years after his first.
He will face the winner of Friday’s semifinal between top-seeded Novak Djokovic, Nadal’s longtime rival, and Lucas Pouille, a 24-year-old Frenchman who has made his own surprisingly deep run in Melbourne. Before this tournament, Pouille had never won a match here in five tries.
Nadal versus Tsitsipas was yet another match at this tournament touted as a battle of generations — all-time great versus budding YouTube sensation.
Nadal, 32, has won 17 major championships and was playing his 30th Grand Slam semifinal.
Tsitsipas, 20, has just a single tour title. Though he enthralled crowds and flashed his talent throughout the tournament — includingan upset of the two-time defending champion Roger Federer— he is still relatively new to pro tennis. He had never previously advanced past the fourth round of a major.
Despite the chasm in experience, it seemed Tsitsipas was playing well enough to have a chance.
Instead, it was never close. Nadal came out sharply, targeting lethal, down-the-line groundstrokes to seize momentum with a break in the third game. From that moment, his power suffocated the young Greek.
As much as Tsitsipas tried to inflict damage with flat returns, Nadal rarely seemed rushed. He was never broken. The first set was over in 31 pragmatic minutes. The second took 44. The third, another 31. By the standards of professional men’s tennis, those sets were sprints.
Not long after the match was done, Tsitsipas, who was seeded 14th, looked dazed at his news conference, lacking any of the optimistic energy he’d exuded after previous matches. On Tuesday, he had explained how he’d learned fromlosing to Nadallast summer in the final of the Rogers Cup in Toronto. He had remembered coming off the court there feeling he would do much better next time against the Spaniard, because now he had a sense of Nadal’s game, “especially on hardcourt.”
Two days later, there was no such gumption.
“He plays just a different game style than the rest of the players,” Tsitsipas said, dolefully.
It looked as if he had just been pummeled in a boxing ring.
“He has this, I don’t know, talent that no other player has,” Tsitsipas added. “His game style has something that it kind of makes the other half of your brain work more than it usually does. I’m trying to understand, but I cannot find an explanation.”
When Nadal took to the dais a few minutes later, there was nothing but clipped certainty. His answers, coming in his familiar accented English, were all business, same as his game has been for the past two weeks. He said all the right things about focus and routine and not getting too far ahead of matters. There is a final soon to play. This is no time for idle chatter or expansive thoughts. He was bland in the way that Tom Brady is bland.
“I have to keep doing the things that I am doing,” he said. “That’s my feeling, just keep playing the way that I am playing and let’s see.”
Bland, but effective. Ruthlessly so.
Nadal enters Sunday’s match having contested some of the most memorable finals in this tournament’s history, though he has won only one of the four. His only title here came in 2009, whenhe defeated Federerin five scintillating sets. In 2012, hesuccumbed to Djokovicafter a 5-hour-53-minute marathon, the longest major tournament final on the books. In 2017, he and Federer staged the most recent of their epic major tournament duels, with Federerwinning in five sets.
Nadal also reached the 2014 final, but he struggled with a debilitating back injury andlost to Stan Wawrinka.
Seeded second this year, Nadal began the tournament shadowed by questions about how long his body could withstand the rigors of a hardcourt Grand Slam event. He had not played a tour match since the United States Open in September, whenhe retired from his semifinalagainst Juan Martín del Potro, citing a leg injury. In November, he had ankle surgery. Then, in the run-up to the Australian Open, he withdrew from a tournament he had been scheduled to play in Brisbane, citing a thigh strain.
Asked if he expected to be back in this form, playing this well, gunning in his tour return for another Grand Slam title, his reply came quick. “Is not easy to be back after four months, and play the way I am playing,” he said. “Of course, I didn’t expect that at all.”
Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MELBOURNE, Australia — When Andy Murray announced that he planned to retire from tennis this year because of chronic hip pain, the news generated the expected plaudits and empathy from the rivals who had shared a locker room with him for years.
The most distinct voices in the chorus of praise, however, were female. Ininterviewsandnews conferencesand on social media over the years, Murray established himself as a champion for equality and for women’s tennis. In doing so, he became an ally to the WTA tour, whose players have long felt unappreciated and undervalued by many in the men’s side of the sport.
“I’m really bummed for him, individually, but I’m also bummed for women’s tennis, because we just lost a huge spokesperson,” said Nicole Gibbs, a 25-year-old American pro. “Not that he’ll be silent in his retirement — I think he’ll remain really outspoken, and we’ll appreciate that. But it’s nice to see friendly male tennis player faces throughout the year, so that will be sorely missed for us.”
Murray has said he would like to play until Wimbledon this summer, but aftera first-round loss Mondayto Spain’s Roberto Bautista Agut and now weighing another hip operation, he left open the possibility that he may have played the last match of his career.
In more than a decade as a top-10 player, Murray has used his prominent position to be an advocate for women in tennis in ways large and small. After being taught the game by his mother, Judy, Murray became the most high-profile men’s player to hire a female coach when he added Amélie Mauresmo to his team in 2014. He also has made a point of correcting reporters when they omit women from statistics, like at Wimbledon in 2017 when he interrupted a reporter who prefaced a question by saying that Sam Querrey was the first American player to reach the semifinals there since 2009.
“Male player,” Murray interrupted.
Serena Williams, one of the women the reporter had overlooked, praised Murray during a television appearance.
“I don’t think there’s a woman player — and there really shouldn’t be a female athlete — that is not totally supportive of Andy Murray,” Williamssaid. “He has spoken up for women’s issues and women’s rights, especially in tennis, forever — and he does it again. That’s one thing that we love about him.”
Murray has not always been comfortable with the praise he receives for what he considers simple gestures, or with the label of “outspoken.”
“I haven’t gone out of my way to talk about it,” Murray said in August. “If someone has asked me a question, I’ve given my answer. When a male athlete speaks positively about female athletes, it makes a headline — which is strange, and shouldn’t really be the case, but it is.”
But more than his public pronouncements, Murray has won over female players by acknowledging and validating them in a way few other male players have. The Swiss player Timea Bacsinszky said that Murray was a rare men’s pro who would greet her and her team around tournaments and show his appreciation for her efforts.
“I don’t remember where it was, but he comes to me and he’s like, ‘Oh, great job three weeks ago, you killed it, you were playing so great in the quarterfinals,’” Bacsinszky said of Murray. “I was like, Wow, the guy is looking at the women’s results as well! He just appreciates good tennis.”
Murray prepared last month for a tournament in Brisbane by hitting with Naomi Osaka, the reigning United States Open champion. Osaka said she rued the news that her new practice partner could be leaving the sport soon.
“I felt really sad because I’ve never really talked to him before Brisbane, right?” she said. “Then we started talking. He was so nice. Like, he’s a super nice person. Now I just feel like I lost — he’s not a friend — but I lost someone that could be a friend.”
His appeal crosses generations. Billie Jean King called Murray a “champion on and off the court.”
“Your greatest impact on the world may be yet to come,” Kingwrote on Twitter. “Your voice for equality will inspire future generations.”
King, who helped the women’s tour get off the ground in the early 1970s, knows how valuable that kind of support has been, and how rare it still is at times.
In 2016, Novak Djokovic, the current president of the ATP player council, was criticized by Murray and others after he said that, after years of gains by women seeking equal pay at major tournaments, men should continue to agitate fora larger shareof the pot at combined events. (Djokovic laterbacktracked, saying his comments were “not the best articulation of my view.”)
And when Italy’s Stefano Travaglia stepped down from his seat on the 10-player council at the end of last season, the council appointed Ukraine’s Sergiy Stakhovsky, a well-known lightning rod, to fill it. Stakhovsky has been dismissive of women’s tennis and its players in recent years, ridiculing the concept of equal pay and making homophobic remarks about the women’s tour.
Stakhovsky’s comments have repeatedly drawn Murray’s rebuke, bothpubliclyand privately. But they also have left women’s pros feeling little support from men’s players when debates around equal prize money have flared up, as they do periodically.
“Not a lot of warmth coming from that side or that perspective,” Maria Sharapova said.
Andrea Petkovic said allies were crucial to the women’s game as it seeks to maintain the level of equality it has achieved, and as it seeks to close remaining gaps. And that is why she said she would miss Murray as well.
“He was always my favorite, and I think it will be a huge loss for tennis in general, but also for the WTA,” she said. “Because even nowadays, when you think everything is equal, you still need men, especially successful men, to speak up for women.”
Murray’s reputation as a supporter of women gained notice far beyond the corridors of tennis. Before the 2017 United States Open, he wasprofiled in Elle Magazine. And last year, when the comedian Sarah Silverman was describing her ideal man in an interview on Ellen DeGeneres’s television show, she said, “I like a masculine man, but he has to be a feminist — that contrast is very hot to me.”
“Like Andy Murray,” DeGeneres suggested.
“Oh my God, like Andy Murray!” Silverman exclaimed. “Yes!”
Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weeklyAustralia Letter, start your day with your localMorning Briefingand join us in ourFacebook group.

Supported by
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — The first point of the Australian Open men’s final on Sunday told the story of all that was to come.
With his opening serve, Novak Djokovic stretched Rafael Nadal wide, sending the Spaniard sprawling. Djokovic quickly had his longtime rival exactly where he wanted: off balance and unglued.
In a flash, as Nadal spun 360 degrees and scrambled to recover, Djokovic took a half-dozen confident steps forward. He lined up a backhand and then unleashed a buzzing winner that Nadal did not even try for.
Point won. Point made. Rafael Nadal: toast.
The match, held at Rod Laver Arena on a warm and slightly breezy evening, finished just 2 hours 4 minutes later, Djokovic winning in a full-blown knockout, 6-3, 6-2, 6-3.
This was a win that tightened the 31-year-old Serb’s hold on the top spot in men’s tennis. It also elevated his name once again in the annals of tennis history. He now has a record seven Australian Open titles and has moved to sole possession of third place for major titles, with 15, breaking a tie with Pete Sampras.
The three powerhouse sets were as fine and dominating as Djokovic — or anyone — has ever played in a major tournament final.
“It ranks right at the top,” Djokovic said, assessing his performance at a news conference. “At this level, under these circumstances, it was truly a perfect match.”
He could not have seen this coming. Nobody could.
Djokovic versus Nadal, No. 1 vs. No. 2, was arguably the most anticipated match of the tournament. It was the first occasion in which these two tense rivals — who have now played 53 times on tour, with Djokovic winning 28 — had met in the finals of a Grand Slam event since 2014, when Nadal slipped by Djokovic in four sets at Roland Garros in Paris.
Given the scintillating way both had performed throughout the tournament, with Nadal winning every set he played in his first six matches and with Djokovic winning all but two, it seemed certain that they would duel once again deep into the Melbourne night.
It was a match that was expected to dust off hallowed memories of what might have been their greatest combined moment of glory. In 2012, the two played one of the most epic finals in Grand Slam history, right on Laver’s sea-blue center court:a 5-hour-53-minute marathonwon by Djokovic, the longest major final ever.
But a reprise was not to be. What unfolded was not even a reasonable facsimile.
Still, the night had its own way of being unforgettable. The final failed to offer drama, but it did present beauty — that of a top-flight athlete, among tennis’s greatest champions, operating at the very peak of his powers.
“Things started so quick,” Nadal said, snapping his fingers twice to emphasize the point. “He was pushing me to every ball. He played so well. He hit so long. His return was fantastic. He was super quick.”
Nadal, 32, did not appear particularly downcast after the match. Instead, it seemed as if he had simply resigned himself to the result. He noted that he had been injured and had not been able to prepare for the tournament as he had wished. Indeed, after pulling out of his semifinal match at the United States Open last September and then having ankle surgery, he had not played a match on tour until this tournament began.
But he also allowed that there had been nothing he could really do on Sunday against Djokovic, saying it “was unbelievable, the way that he played, no doubt about that.”
Djokovic made only nine unforced errors. He lost just one point on his serve in the first set. He aggressively shortened every rally he could, keeping them to an average of five shots, a stunningly low number considering the long-distance finals he and Nadal have slugged out in the past. Riding pinpoint accuracy and depth, he so flummoxed Nadal that the Spaniard once swung and whiffed on a forehand.
Nadal, whose tally for major titles remains at 17, three behind Roger Federer’s record, threw all he could muster at the match, especially as it drained from his grip. He worked in as many drop shots as he could. He altered positioning on his returns. He moved early, trying to guess which way Djokovic was serving.
Nothing worked.
Djokovic led early in every stanza and never looked back. There was no tension. The match was shorter by 23 minutes thanSaturday’s stirring women’s finalbetween Naomi Osaka and Petra Kvitova, which also unfolded in three sets but was blessed by tension at every turn.
“For me, one of the most important objectives for the match was to start off well and bring the intensity and make sure that he also feels my presence,” said Djokovic, who looked remarkably calm and centered, both during the match and afterward. “He always makes sure that the opponent across the net feels his presence. That is how he plays. That’s how he behaves. He brings so much energy, jumping around, sprinting.
“It was crucial for me to start off with an early break. Having a set under my belt just made me relax a bit more, not really worry too much. After that, it was smooth.”
Smooth. Perfect summary.
It was a rare lopsided Grand Slam final between men’s tennis greats, reminiscent ofNadal’s wipeout of Federerat the 2008 French Open andJohn McEnroe’s rout of Jimmy Connorsat Wimbledon in 1984.
But it should not be forgotten how far the two came to get to the finals, the hurdles overcome. There is Nadal with his injuries, which have piled up over the years, especially on hard courts. There is Djokovic with the way he struggled with his confidence and his health after winning the French Open in 2016. For two full tennis seasons, it felt as if he was lost in the wilderness, in matches including afourth-round lossat Melbourne Park last year to the unseeded South Korean Hyeon Chung.
Djokovic underwent elbow surgery not long after that match. At first, the operation did not help his on-court results. He appeared to be a doubting and unhappy shadow of his self. Improbably, he found his game on the Wimbledon grass,winning the title thereand then following that up with another championship at the U.S. Open in September.
According to the International Tennis Federation, Djokovic is the first man to record three streaks of three or more Grand Slam titles in a row. He won four straight from Wimbledon in 2015 to the 2016 French Open, and three in a row from Wimbledon in 2011 to the 2012 Australian Open.
His chance to hold all four major titles at the same time will come in four months at the French Open, which he has won only once (Nadal has been the champion at Roland Garros 11 times).
Sustain this level through the United States Open, and it is not impossible to imagine him winning a calendar-year Grand Slam. No man has done that since Rod Laver in 1969.
And what about reaching Federer’s record 20 Grand Slam titles?
Asked about those milestones on Sunday, Djokovic was his typically reflective self.
“I am aware that making history of the sport that I truly love is something special,” he said.
He then gave a nod to the kind of uncertainty that he knows very well, firsthand: the way injuries and loss of confidence can shake the very best of foundations. There are no sure bets.
“How many seasons are to come? I don’t know,” he added, noting that he was trying hard not to get too far ahead of himself. “I do want to definitely focus myself on continuing to improve so I would be able to compete at such a high level for the years to come — and have a shot at eventually getting closer to Roger’s record.
“It’s still far.”
True, but if he keeps playing in the fluid, focused way he did on this Sunday evening in Melbourne, 20 Grand Slams will come into focus soon enough.




Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
Another season of Grand Slam tennis begins at the Australian Open on Monday, but Agnieszka Radwanska, who retired in November, won’t be part of it.
Aptly called “The Ninja” for her ability to inflict out-of-nowhere pain on the opposition from all manner of contortionist positions, Radwanska’s spectacular, poker-faced shotmaking will be missed.
But even without its Ninja, the women’s game is in a memorable phase when it comes to entertainment value and players with an uncommon touch.
At the moment and probably not for long, the tour is a clash of generations with Serena Williams, 37, and Venus Williams, 38, still in the mix along with midcareer champions like Angelique Kerber, 30, and Caroline Wozniacki, 28, and the new wave led by Naomi Osaka, 21, the Japanese sensation who upset Serena Williams to win the United States Open last year. It is rare to see such a range of players clashing with the outcomes so uncertain.
The tour has geographical breadth with players from the United States, Europe, Asia and Australia all in the top 20 and with Ons Jabeur, 24, of Tunisia in the top 60 after last year, becoming the first Arab woman to reach a WTA final.
But there is another strong and too often undervalued selling point: stylistic variety. Though serious baseline power remains the most popular and fail-safe route to stardom, players with subtler, more creative games are also finding a way to win consistently, just as Radwanska, a former world No. 2 and Wimbledon finalist, did before her injuries.
Several of these tennis “artists” will be seeded at the Australian Open: No. 10 Daria Kasatkina of Russia, No. 13 Anastasija Sevastova of Latvia, No. 15 Ashleigh Barty of Australia, and No. 28 Hsieh Su-wei of Taiwan, a 33-year-old whose double-handed, frequently off-speed strokes are as crafty as they come. There is also Jabeur, still an outsider but whose game is a crowd-pleasing mix of baseline punch, feathery touch and Federer-esque flourishes.
“There will always be exceptions to the power players,” said Paul McNamee, the former Australian men’s star who advises Hsieh. “The players you refer to, however, all have one thing in common: exceptional hands. They have amazing touch, and this is why they can survive even if they have less raw power.”
That hardly means they have none. Barty, despite being 5-foot-5 and shorter than most of her rivals, generates the leg drive and racket-head speed to hit big serves and forehands. Her crisply sliced backhand has unusual bite, and she has perhaps the best net game in the sport.
“The plan to get to the net more often is a focus for 2019,” said Craig Tyzzer, her coach. “Ash certainly benefits from playing more doubles than most of the other singles girls, but her volley skills were certainly developed from an early age, which is a massive advantage.”
Kasatkina has a heavy topspin forehand that she can flatten out to create more pace when she requires it.
But what distinguishes the members of the WTA’s creative class from their peers is the size of their tool set and the range of their tactical options. Their success has meant more matchups that feature contrasting styles: important to the appeal of a game where patterns have a tendency to repeat.
“Tennis is a game of chess, of tactics,” said Philippe Dehaes, Kasatkina’s coach, who has emerged as one of the tour’s leading mentors and motivators. “You have to vary zones and trajectories and find the answer suited to what your opponent is doing. To have women who play well tactically and who can keep the ball in play, while varying and creating, makes the show much more interesting for people, in my opinion.”
It is not the contrast that tennis once regularly offered. When Martina Navratilova was attacking the net in the 1970s and 1980s against her baseline-hugging archrival Chris Evert and others, the gulf between styles and tennis philosophies was much wider.
“When you had serve-and-volleyers going against baseliners, that was more of a complete and obvious contrast,” said Tracy Austin, the precocious champion who faced Navratilova frequently. “But in this day and age where the game has become homogenized, we’re looking for any contrast. It’s not as extreme as it used to be, but that’s why Hsieh Su-wei is fun to watch, because you feel like you can see the wheels turning in her mind as to where to place the ball, the geometry of the court. So many players use left and right, and she uses north and south as well.”
Hsieh is constantly changing depth: shifting her target from the backcourt to the forecourt as she mixes in drop shots, angled volleys and sliced and flat groundstrokes.
“Her hands can redirect a shot in either direction on both wings with pinpoint accuracy,” McNamee said. “That’s not normal.”
But outlier fast-twitch defensive skills are required to thrive in an era of abundant power and athleticism, of taller, stronger opposition with superior leverage like Petra Kvitova, Garbine Muguruza, Karolina Pliskova, Madison Keys and the ascendant Aryna Sabalenka.
“I try to do something else than the normal,” said Sevastova, a U.S. Open semifinalist last year whose trademark is the drop shot. “I think it’s important, and it’s my style. It’s not like I don’t have power. I just don’t have that much. But I can handle their pace and hit the ball quickly, and I like variety.”
Dehaes sees more women being able to survive the onslaught.
“I think that has always been the case, but in the last few years we saw it a bit less,” he said. “I think the equipment played a big role, and there was the evolution of women’s tennis with players becoming stronger physically and better technically. Because everyone trains a lot and everyone trains well, which was not always the case in former times. So with more athletic players and more high-performance equipment, the pace of the game accelerated. But I think now the girls are getting used to it and are more able to counter the games of these super-powerful players.”
Tennis’s recent honor roll confirms that. Three of the four Grand Slam singles titles last year went to counterpunchers: the No. 1 player, Simona Halep, and Kerber and Wozniacki, all of whom have long had speed and defensive skills, but who also have focused on improving their serves and learning to embrace risk selectively.
“Honestly, it could be just 15 percent more aggression that can make the difference,” Austin said. “You are just robbing your opponent of a little bit of time on certain shots.”
Martin Blackman, general manager of player development at the United States Tennis Association, says he believes that “we will see more and more complete players on the women’s side.”
Purer power players are also trying to broaden their range. In her late teens, Osaka clearly had potent groundstrokes and a penetrating serve. But she did not make the leap to Grand Slam champion until she lost weight in 2018 and improved her explosive movement, agility and defensive skills with help from her new coach, Sascha Bajin, and her fitness coach, Abdul Sillah.
“She’s pulled back some; Sascha’s got her thinking more on the court rather than just see ball, hit ball,” Austin said. “Now, she’s fit enough and aware enough and realizes, ‘O.K., this is a red-light ball. I have to get the point back to neutral.’ Or ‘this is a green-light ball, and I can go big.’”
The artists are also at work on finding the time to use their brushes.
“My challenge with Dasha,” said Dehaes, using Kasatkina’s nickname, “is to help her find a way to stay in the rally even under great pressure, and at a certain moment, the right moment, make the difference with a variation. But it’s not easy to vary when you play someone like Sabalenka, who hits every ball very hard from everywhere without much theory. It’s very hard to counter this kind of woman.”
Perhaps impossible when a true power player is on target.
“If you have Serena and she’s at the top of her game, I still say that power is always going to win,” Austin said. “I don’t know if Sabalenka is 10 to 15 percent away from that top level or maybe just two weeks away, but when she’s all cylinders firing, I still think she’s going to take out the Kasatkinas, the Sevastovas, the Bartys. But let me tell you. If you’re off a little bit and your timing is messed up a little bit by those combinations — topspin, slice, short, deep — it’s a whole new ballgame.”
Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MELBOURNE, Australia — Emilio Nava stood at the microphone on the court of Rod Laver Arena and smiled broadly.
“Wow,” he said, smiling again. “Wow.”
It was hard to know he had just lost. Nava, 17, seeded 13th, saved three championship points and held one of his own before falling, 4-6, 6-2, 7-6 (12), to top-seeded Lorenzo Musetti of Italy in the Australian Open boys’ singles final on Saturday. (On Friday, Nava lost in the boys’ doubles final.)
Despite the double dose of disappointment, he remained undimmed.
“It means the world to come out here on Rod Laver and play, thank you so much,” he said. “Hopefully I’ll be back, and see you later, thank you!”
The foundation of tennis success in Nava’s family can be traced to an undersized court in a small town in Mexico. His grandfather Ernesto Escobedo Sr. fell in love with the sport when he watched a Davis Cup tie in Los Angeles. After moving his large family to Jerez, Mexico, he built a tennis court, or as much of one as he could fit, in the family’s backyard.
Xóchitl Nava, Emilio’s mother, said the little court her father built had its limitations, but also offered boundless opportunities.
“On one side of the court, we didn’t have room to hit a backhand or forehand,” she said in a telephone interview. “So it was a tennis court, but more of a playground where we could hit balls and have fun.”
Their father’s passion for tennis rubbed off on many of his 10 children.
“When we started getting older, everybody went their own ways,” Xóchitl Nava said. “But we were always playing tennis.”
That court spurred her to a modest professional career — she reached a high of 284th and represented Mexico in the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. But it proved an even stronger trampoline for the next generation: Nava’s reaching two junior Grand Slam finals at this tournament alone is just the latest example.
Xóchitl Nava’s nephew Ernesto Escobedoreached a career-best ATP ranking of No. 68 in 2017. Her oldest son, Eduardo, plays at Wake Forest, the reigning national champion. Her middle son, Diego, plays for Loyola Marymount in Los Angeles.
Emilio Nava first made a splash at the elite junior level by reaching the final of the prestigious Eddie Herr tournament last year. He stays in touch with his tennis-playing cousins and siblings in an active group chat.
“It’s everything, really,” he said of the sport. “Especially when you train every day, it becomes a lifestyle, you know? It becomes every day that you’re thinking about it — you try to relax a little bit, but it’s still there. But it’s fun, yeah, yeah, for sure.”
He now splits his time between California and Alicante, Spain, where he trains at the Juan Carlos Ferrero Equelite Sport Academy. When he is home in Woodland Hills, Calif., he trains across the street at the backyard court of his cousin Jaime’s house.
On Sunday, Xóchitl Nava expressed little disappointment about Emilio’s defeat.
“Seeing him in the finals, for us, it’s like a dream,” she said. “We’re just very lucky and fortunate to have Emilio, and to watch him play in a big stadium like that, it’s really unbelievable.”



Supported by
ByDavid Waldstein
TORONTO — In a subterranean food court in downtown Toronto, shoppers bustled past Maria Patrascu without a glance, unaware that the young woman sipping green tea was the leader of a growing rebellion in professional tennis.
A year ago at this time, Patrascu was a little-known left-hander playing obscure tournaments in Egypt as she tried to get her world ranking under 600. But now she is unable to enter tournaments because of controversial new International Tennis Federation rules designed to slash the ranks of pro players.
So instead of playing, Patrascu, 22, remains at home, seeking to upsetthe I.T.F.’s new World Tennis Tourone signature at a time. But what began as a petition has turned into a surging player revolt that Patrascu, more than any other player, has helped bring to light.
“It started out rebellious, but it has definitely evolved,” she said. “It’s just a movement to pursue justice.”
About 10 months ago, Patrascu began reading how the I.T.F., one of four governing bodies in tennis, planned to introduce a complicated string of rules to restructure the lower levels of the sport. Patrascu grew alarmed that she and hundreds of young players like her would find it far more difficult to get into tournaments and pursue a tennis career.
Last March, Patrascu started anonline petitionto halt the changes. For many months, it gathered only a modest response — about 2,400 signatures through December. But once the changes took effect in January and thousands of aspiring players felt the full force of the new rules, support for her petition soared.
It added more than 12,000 new signatures in just the last six weeks and now has more than 14,500. With Patrascu leading the way, supporters have already extracted one concession from the I.T.F., with more possibly on the way.
The movement continues to grow, and some players have met with lawyers to discuss a lawsuit against the I.T.F. Dave Miley, a former federation official and coach who has also opposed the new rules, praised Patrascu and the players and coaches who have joined the fight.
“What she and other players are doing is admirable, and they have cause,” Miley said. “To me, 14,000 voices out there are not uninformed.”
Professional tennis has several tiers, much like baseball with its major leagues and several levels of minor leagues below them. The best and most famous tennis players play in ATP or WTA tournaments. The rest, as many as 14,000 of them, toil anonymously around the globe in small events that are supposed to serve as tennis’s talent incubator.
Patrascu is one of those. Born in Bucharest, Romania, in 1997, she moved to Toronto with her parents when she was 5. She showed promise as a junior, winning the Canadian under-14 championship, and turned professional at 18. But her career-high ranking is No. 615 in the I.T.F. and No. 819 in the WTA.
Most players’ chances of making it to stardom are slim, and for many, it is challenging to just break even financially after paying for travel, training and other expenses. That is why the I.T.F., after commissioning an extensive study, declared the old structure unsustainable. Too many marginal players were basically masquerading as professionals.
The I.T.F.’s mission is to promote tennis around the world, and the organization works to ensure that there are tournaments on all continents. But those events have been open to all comers, and they have included players with little hope of breaking into the top tier — some of them over 50 years old. The I.T.F. study determined that in one year, as many as 6,000 so-called professional players did not earn even $1. Arecent independent investigationalso found that there was a “tsunami” of fixed matches at the lower levels, where players earning little prize money are vulnerable to betting syndicates.
The I.T.F. determined that the best model for professional tennis should include no more than 750 men and 750 women. It recommended new rules to restructure the tour, effectively eliminating almost 13,000 aspirants.
The new system is intended to provide an easier path for the top 100 juniors to matriculate via easier access to bigger tournaments, perhaps at the expense, opponents say, of other players who develop at later ages. (A certain number of spots are reserved at some events for the players in the top 100 junior rankings.) With a smaller pool of truly professional players, the I.T.F. hopes, the meager prize money and ranking points offered at the lower levels could be distributed more efficiently.
But Patrascu, and many others who are taking to various platforms tovent their anger, say that hard-working players with real potential are being caught up in the cull as tournament sizes are reduced and ranking points become more difficult to attain.
Patrascu said she received so many messages every day from frustrated players detailing their own problems with the new tour that she was unable to reply to them all.
“They’re killing the players’ dreams, just to end up with a handful of really, really good players,” she said of the I.T.F. “All the rest are forgotten.”
In December, the I.T.F. granted Patrascu a one-hour conference call with the federation officials Jackie Nesbitt and Andrew Moss. Patrascu later said she felt she had let her fellow players down on that call, because she could not stop the new plan.
Then, in January, the new tour was introduced and Patrascu’s WTA ranking disappeared, she said. The most jarring change for most players is the limit on entrants for the qualifying rounds, the mini tournaments that allow fringe players to play their way into the main draws, where modest prize money and ranking points were up for grabs. These entries were cut to 24.
In the past, many tournaments had large qualifying draws of 48, 64 or even occasionally 128 players.
Patrascu explained how the changes in the size of qualifying draws have affected her boyfriend, Kevin Portmann of Italy, who went to a tournament in Tunisia last month and was required to play two pre-qualifying matches on the day he arrived. That was just to get into the qualifying rounds. She said she could not afford to travel to Africa or Europe for tournaments with little hope of reaching the main draw.
“You have to win five matches just to be in position to play someone who is totally fresh,” she said. “It’s not fair.”
Players are fuming because they now require more points to move up in the rankings, but it is harder to get into the tournaments to get those points. Also, doubles specialists are at a greater disadvantage because singles rankings are now used to determine entry into the doubles draws.
As the new reality sinks in, many players and their coaches, families and friends are turning to Patrascu’s petition. Some have followed her initiative with Facebook pages, like the one with a banner headline that reads, “Don’t Kill Tennis.” Rafael Nadal’s uncle and coach, Toni Nadal, who runs the player’s academy, spoke out against the new rulesin an Instagram videothis month.
The I.T.F. insisted that Patrascu’s petition contained “inaccuracies” and said that much of the other criticism had been “uninformed.” But, under siege, it made its first amendment to the new rules last month byexpanding qualifying draws to 32 players. The federation also promised to continue monitoring the rules and to act accordingly.
“Of course we are listening to the players,” said Kris Dent, the I.T.F.’s senior executive director for pro circuits. “It would be foolish not to listen to our constituents. Change is never easy, but in this case it is vital.”
Patrascu said she was encouraged by the revision but said it should only be the start. Meanwhile, her days are spent training indoors in Toronto and stoking the budding rebellion.
“I don’t feel like I’m doing this for myself, especially because I’m not sure where my career is headed,” she said. “The time that I’ve dedicated to it is really from the bottom of my heart. I wish players could have more opportunities.”



Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
PERTH, Australia — When Serena Williams and Roger Federer played against each other for the first time, on Tuesday night at the Hopman Cup, it was the ultimate expression of an event that has brought the best men and best women in tennis together for more than three decades.
But despite the power of seeing Williams and Federer on opposite sides of the net, the future of the Hopman Cup is uncertain, with a new men’s team event set to eclipse it, part of a trend of realignment and reinvention in tennis. Tennis Australia, which manages the Hopman Cup, will next year help organize theATP Cup, a 10-day tournament that will have men’s teams from 24 countries competing across three Australian cities for ranking points and $15 million in prize money.
With mixed doubles increasinglyoutstripped in prize moneyand prestige at Grand Slam events, the Hopman Cup — with two-person teams from eight countries competing in singles and mixed doubles — is the lone place to see top men and top women team up besides the Olympics.
Though Federer did not participate in the Hopman Cup through the middle years of his career, he has a long attachment to the event, first coming to Perth as a hitting partner in 1999. He won the tournament with Martina Hingis in 2001 about a month before taking his first title on the ATP Tour. At the next Hopman Cup, he partnered with his future wife, Mirka Vavrinec.
[Read:Roger Federer struggles with Serena Williams’s serve. And vice versa.]
“Men and women, we share a lot of tournaments together, but it’s not the same as when you play each other or share the same court,” Federer said. “So I think the players have always enjoyed this event.”
The Hopman Cup’s distinction as a mixed event stands in contrast to the trend of new team tennis concepts for men only. Tennis Australia has taken an aggressive role in event creation, cofounding the men-only Laver Cup and the ATP Cup in recent years.
That focus on men’s tennis could doom the coed Hopman Cup. The host cities for the ATP Cup have not yet been announced, but the state-of-the-art Perth Arena, where the Hopman Cup has been held since 2013, is a likely choice. Even if Perth is not chosen, it would be difficult to imagine Tennis Australia hosting two competing team events in the same week.
The Hopman Cup remains an oddity in its 31st year, at once a playful exhibition that serves as a relaxing lead-up to the Australian Open and, since 1997, an officially sanctioned International Tennis Federation event.
The tournament has been bankrolled by the Western Australian government’s tourism body, Tourism W.A. Player appearance contracts have included clauses forbidding them from criticizing Perth, and at times the programming can feel like an infomercial for the region. After his first match at this year’s tournament, Federer gave an on-court interview that centered on his appreciation for the region and a photo shoot at a scenic rock formation nearby.
Among locals, the main concern is less about preserving the Hopman Cup and more about making sure that isolated Perth, which is 1,300 miles from another city of more than 100,000 people, keeps a foothold in tennis and is not left out of the pre-Australian Open swing.
In the wider tennis community, the Hopman Cup’s uniqueness is appreciated. It has rarely sparked the tribal passions on which Davis Cup prides itself, but the Hopman Cup has been a crowd-pleasing event, cherished by tennis fans who have savored the opportunity to see the sport’s top women and top men compete and commingle.
The New Year’s Day battle of Williams and Frances Tiafoe against Federer and Belinda Bencic represented an apex of many captivating Hopman Cup combinations. Marat Safin and Dinara Safina, the only brother-sister pair to both reach the No. 1 ranking, played together for Russia in 2009. Boris Becker and Steffi Graf played together in 1992 for the only time in their careers, a pairing of stars so sought after that a German television station helped the tournament organizers pay the players’ appearance fees.
The tournament has also featured some irresistible matchups of men’s and women’s stars who would never otherwise intersect. In the 2011 final, the 5-foot-5 Justine Henin tried to return the booming serve of the 6-foot-10 John Isner.
Not everyone is ready to write an obituary for the event, though. David Haggerty, president of the I.T.F., which sanctions the Hopman Cup as its official mixed team competition, said the event was “very, very important and should continue.”
Haggerty said he expected Tennis Australia to honor its remaining contractual obligations for managing the Hopman Cup in the first week of the season, which run through 2022.
“We’re just excited to continue to see Hopman Cup through because it is a great way to have the men and women playing,” said Haggerty, who spearheaded a massive overhaul of the Davis Cup format last year despite strong resistance from governing bodies, including Tennis Australia.
If Saturday’s final was the event’s last gasp, it had a breathtaking finish, with Federer and Bencic prevailing in an 18-shot rally on a winner-take-all final point against Alexander Zverev and Angelique Kerber, clinching a second straight title for the Swiss pair.
Tennis Australia’s Paul Kilderry, who serves as the Hopman Cup’s tournament director, declined to comment for this article, citing uncertainty about the tournament’s future.
As Haggerty expressed reason for the Hopman Cup to endure, Ross Hutchins, the ATP vice president for player relations, was scouting Perth Arena as a potential venue for the ATP Cup, for which he will be managing director. Hutchins is also visiting Adelaide, Brisbane and Sydney, which all have existing tennis facilities.
“Ultimately we thought this time of year, leading into a Grand Slam, is important to do something major in, and that’s what we will target,” Hutchins said. “This event will be a major event on the ATP Tour.”
The ATP Cup is landing in a jam-packed first week of the tennis season, which this year has seven tournaments: the Hopman Cup; WTA tournaments in Auckland, New Zealand, and Shenzhen, China; ATP tournaments in Doha, Qatar, and Pune, India; and a combined ATP-WTA tournament in Brisbane. Hutchins said only one of the ATP events would remain on the schedule as a complement to the ATP Cup, with no survivor yet designated.
The ATP is eager to add more events that it will own outright. The ATP Cup will be the third new annual men’s team event introduced since 2017. The Federer-backed Laver Cup, which pits a European team against one from the rest of the world, is held in September. The reworked 18-country Davis Cup will culminate in November. Hutchins said he thought there was room for all three to flourish.
“I don’t think there is a fatigue of team events because it’s not something that we think is diluted, and they’re all slightly different,” he said.
But there is nothing quite like the Hopman Cup on the horizon. Without any fixed plans for the event’s end or its continuation, players and organizers at this year’s tournament participated with a mixture of wistfulness and confusion.
In the afterglow of her match with Federer, Williams was caught off-guard by a question about the Hopman Cup’s probable demise. “Oh, really? I never heard that,” Williams said. “It would be heartbreaking.”



Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MELBOURNE, Australia — As the tennis world was transfixed on Andy Murrayas he played what may have been the final match of his careerlast Monday night, another drama was beginning in Interview Room 2 at the Australian Open.
After a first-round loss, Australia’s Bernard Tomic launched the opening volley in an off-court rift between Lleyton Hewitt and some of the top male players in Australian tennis, a conflict that kept heads turning and eyes rolling throughout the tournament’s first week.
“I’m going to say it honestly: No one likes him anymore,” Tomic said of Hewitt, the country’s most successful men’s player in the past 20 years and the current Davis Cup captain.
Australian men’s tennis was a dominant force in the sport in the 1950s and 1960s, producing players who won 52 of the 80 Grand Slam singles titles in that span. Hewitt arrived on the scene many years later and in the early 2000s, finished two seasons at No. 1 and captured two Grand Slam titles.
But ever since Hewitt fell out of the top tier in 2006, Australia has not had a male Grand Slam singles champion or a top-10 men’s player. Instead, men’s tennis in the country has now become a soap opera, more memorable for its spats than its results on the court.
At this Open, every Australian man fell out of the tournament after just six days. It meant that the host country had failed to have a representative in the second week of men’s singles for the eighth time in the past 13 years. Meanwhile, an Australian woman, 15th-seeded Ashleigh Barty, plays on into the quarterfinals, her mellow and modest manner perhaps making up for the men’s maddening mayhem.
And a lot of that mayhem has to do with Hewitt, who retired with considerable fanfare at the 2016 Australian Open and segued into a new role as the Davis Cup captain. But his debut in that role was dominated by infighting, with Tomic, in a midmatch rant to Hewitt, accusing his teammate Nick Kyrgios of faking an illness. Hewitt, in turn, failed to quell Tomic’s ire.
Last Monday, Tomic accused Hewitt of a litany of misdeeds as Davis Cup captain, including giving preferential treatment to players with whom he had management deals and continuing to play doubles tournaments and in the Davis Cup as well.
Tomic said he and others did not want to play Davis Cup anymore because Hewitt “has ruined the system.”
“Go away,” he added. “Literally, if he is retired, why is he still in tennis? Why do you play these doubles tournaments?”
Hewitt entered the men’s doubles events in Brisbane, Sydney and the Australian Open this month.
Rather than defuse the flames, Hewitt fanned them in his own extraordinary news conference after his loss in Melbourne on Thursday night. He accused Tomic of unspecified threats and “blackmail” against him and his family, essentially giving up any hope of working with Tomic again.
“We’re trying to set cultural standards for the Davis Cup and representing Australia; he hasn’t really been close to those in the last couple of years,” Hewitt said.
Hewitt said that Tomic “won’t play Davis Cup while I have anything to do with it,” but that his relationship with Kyrgios, another controversy-prone Australian, was “salvageable.”
“All I want guys to do is to commit to the sport and work hard, to want to play for Australia,” Hewitt said. “I don’t think that’s too much to ask.”
Tomic, 26, and Kyrgios, 23, were junior Grand Slam champions and undeniable talents whose professional careers have been a mix of bright spots and bad moments, with both players seeming to relish the chance to challenge the idealistic Australian notion as to how a sportsman should conduct himself.
Kyrgios, who also lost in the first round of this tournament, mostly mocked the questions he received about Tomic and Hewitt in his post-match news conference last Tuesday. He did not pick a side.
But it was clear Kyrgios also had soured on Hewitt after he posted a picture on Instagram on Wednesday of Hewitt watching Alex de Minaur, the recent Sydney champion who has become his protégé, and implying that Hewitt would not be watching any other Australian player.
Hewitt, 37, responded by saying Kyrgios’s post was “one of the standards we can’t put up with.”
“Just for the culture of Australian tennis moving forward, can’t do it,” Hewitt added. “I don’t think it’s a good look. I’ve spoken to Nick about it. He understands that. Whether he learns from it, that’s another thing.”
On Sunday, Kyrgiosposted a photo of himself with de Minauron Twitter, seeming to clarify that any bad blood is strictly intergenerational.
De Minaur, 19, is currently the highest-ranked Australian man, at No. 29. He has a game built on dazzling defense, with some of the flashiest footwork on tour. Increasingly, he is presented as a golden boy of the sport in contrast to the ne’er-do-wells Tomic and Kyrgios. De Minaur is so committed to playing for Australia that he has “109” tattooed on his chest because he was the 109th player to represent the country in Davis Cup.
As all of this was playing out, Matt Dwyer, the chief tennis officer of Tennis Australia, got involved, too, issuing a statement on Friday that highlighted de Minaur, Alex Bolt and 19-year-old Alexei Popyrin, all of whom made the third round here, and praising “each player’s unwavering passion to compete and their genuine love of the game, all underpinned by the Tennis Australia values of excellence, loyalty, teamwork and humility.’’
“Support and opportunities will be offered to players who live these values and demonstrate the commitment to maximize their potential, with our ultimate ambition being to develop and foster athletes we can all be proud of,’’ the statement added.
The statement did not mention Tomic and Kyrgios.
Other talented Australian boys have fallen short in recent years. Omar Jasika, who won the 2014 United States Open in boys’ singles and doubles,received a two-year banlast year after testing positive for cocaine.
Oliver Anderson, the 2016 Australian Open boys’ singles champion,served a 19-month provisional suspension for match-fixingfor deliberately losing a set in a 2017 match.
There has also been recent tragedy: Todd Reid, the 2002 Wimbledon boys’ singles champion,died in October at 34.
Asked if he was uncomfortable with the good-kids-versus-bad-kids narrative that predominates Australian men’s tennis, de Minaur demurred.
“There’s a lot of stuff that happens off court, but I think at the end of the day what I really want is to be that boring guy that lets his tennis do the talking, you know?” he said. “I want everyone to know that I’m that kid that’s going to leave it all out there, fight till the end, and just continuously want to improve. If I’m that boring guy in the media, then I’m doing something right.”
De Minaur has been able to stay away from the fray by making his base in Alicante, Spain. After soundly beating de Minaur in the third round, Rafael Nadal said he wished Tomic and Hewitt could learn from de Minaur’s aversion to advertising adversity.
“Will be more normal if they sit and they talk,” Nadal said, “more than do this thing here in the media.”
As Hewitt lurched toward the end of a news conference that John McEnroe described as “pouring gasoline on the fire,” he did not deny that there was toxicity in the men’s tennis culture in Australia. But he insisted that there were good stories, too, including John Millman’s upset of Roger Federer at the 2018 United States Open
For Hewitt, the most disappointing part was that the comments of a first-round loser overshadowed other Australian players’ victories.
“It’s one clown making a silly comment, and that’s the main news,” Hewitt said as his packed news conference stretched into its 14th minute.



Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
Difficult as it might be to remember at this time-is-money stage in tennis, the sport once had no tiebreakers.
Long ago, every set had to be won by a two-game margin and theoretically had no finish line. Which meant that at Wimbledon in the first round of the men’s singles in 1969, the great but aging Pancho Gonzales defeated Charlie Pasarell by the score of 22-24, 1-6, 16-14, 6-3, 11-9 in a two-day match that lasted five hours and 12 minutes.
The tiebreaker was introduced to Grand Slam tennis the following year at the 1970 United States Open, with red flags being flown courtside whenever a set reached 6-6.
It has taken 49 more years for the major tournaments to reach the awkward phase where all four use different methods to resolve deciding sets in singles.
The red flags are long gone, but the novelty effect is back. The Australian Open, which begins on Monday, will use a best-of-18-point tiebreaker at 6-6 in deciding sets, which are third sets for the women and fifth sets for the men.
Later this year, Wimbledon will introduce a conventional best-of-12-point tiebreaker at 12-12. That will leave the French Open as the only Grand Slam tournament that uses no deciding-set tiebreaker in singles.
“I think the International Tennis Federation, the ATP and the Grand Slams should find, more or less, some consistency of the rules for the understanding of the public,” Guy Forget, the French Open tournament director, said in an interview. Consistency and mutual understanding seem particularly elusive at this fractious stage of the game.
The Grand Slam leaders meet regularly and have usually made a big effort to project unity in the last 30 years as their tournaments have grown and prospered. But they have squabbled much more often lately.
There have been disputes about the possible introduction of in-match coaching, which Wimbledon’s leadership continues to oppose. There have been disagreements about the new Laver Cup team event, which the Australian Open and U.S. Open are formally backing.
It seems symbolic that, with the Australian Open’s switch from Wilson to Dunlop, each of the four Grand Slam tournaments is using balls manufactured by a different company this year.
Breaking ranks over tiebreakers is the latest sign of the times, even if it hardly seems a major offense.
Other sports also lack consensus. Consider men’s golf, which has four majors of its own and four ways of resolving ties at the top of the leaderboard after 72 holes.
Despite any confusion, fans still seem quite capable of enjoying golf. Tennis fans surely will end up feeling the same even if tiebreakers in their sport are a great deal more common than golf playoffs.
Top tennis players had best remain alert, however.
“I’m O.K. with any format, really,” said Roger Federer, the Swiss superstar who remains a traditionalist on some fronts, including in-match coaching. “The funny thing is we have different formats now in four different Slams, so it’s just important to remind yourself when you do get to 6-all in the fifth, what’s going on here now? Do you remember which one it is?”
For women, that internal dialogue will come at 6-all in the third set even if there has been little concern about the length of Grand Slam women’s matches, which are all best-of-three sets.
“I was enjoying it, because you have to go far, and you don’t know how the score will be at the end,” said Angelique Kerber, who lost a taut Australian Open semifinal to Simona Halep last year 6-3, 4-6, 9-7. “I will miss it, for sure, but I don’t know if it’s a good or a bad rule change. We will see.”
One wonders what Jimmy Van Alen would think of it all. It was Van Alen, a wealthy American, who pushed for brisker, innovative formats — including the tiebreaker — in the 1960s. Van Alen, a former play who died in 1991, was also one of the driving forces in creating the International Tennis Hall of Fame in Newport, R.I.
“Jimmy Van Alen would not have liked the confusion of different ways of concluding matches at the four Grand Slam events,” said Steve Flink, an American tennis historian who met Van Alen several times.
Van Alen’s idea of a sudden-death tiebreaker managed to change the game in earnest — a best-of-nine-point duel with a winner-take-all point at 4-4, which in a decisive set could give both players a match point simultaneously.
This was the tiebreaker the U.S. Open adopted for all sets in 1970 at 6-6 but abandoned in 1975 in favor of the best-of-12-point tiebreaker that had to be won by two and seemed, to the players, less of a lottery. Wimbledon embraced the best-of-12-point tiebreaker in 1971, but chose to use it at 8-8 instead of 6-6.
“I guess tennis has always had some inexplicable inconsistencies with formats and scoring systems,” Flink said.
Wimbledon maintained its scoring system until 1979, when it opted for tiebreakers at 6-6, waiting 40 years before adopting a decisive-set tiebreaker at 12-12 after last year’s semifinal between Kevin Anderson and John Isner (Anderson finally won, 26-24, in the fifth set on Centre Court, disrupting the tournament’s schedule).
“I know Jimmy Van Alen was dismayed when his original sudden death nine-point tiebreaker was discarded,” Flink said. “But I have no doubt he would have preferred the Australian Open fifth-set tiebreaker to what Wimbledon is doing. Waiting until 12-12 in the fifth would not have suited him at all.”
But for this year at least, the French Open remains the last Grand Slam holdout, a decision Forget said came about because, unlike Wimbledon, the French Open had not had an ultramarathon final set in recent seasons.
“We will not go with the tiebreak for now,” Forget said. “But I hope personally that our sport will adopt new rules in the future as we need to modernize our game a bit.”
Ben Rothenberg contributed reporting.

Supported by
ByReuters
(Reuters) - Former world number one Caroline Wozniacki maintained her dominance over Croatia's Petra Martic on Saturday to move into the final of the Charleston Open where she will play Madison Keys.
Dane Wozniacki, showing confidence after a recent illness, defeated Martic 6-3 6-4 before American Keys turned back Monica Puig 6-4 6-0 in a semi-final that was delayed for more than an hour by rain.
"I'm just so thrilled to be healthy, that's the main thing," the fifth-seeded Wozniacki said after making her first final of the year.
"It's been a long time since I made this long run here," said the Dane who won the South Carolina tournament in 2011.
The fifth seed broke Martic twice in the second set to claim the win and maintain her record of never having lost a set to Martic in six meetings.
"I served well in most of the match and I think I returned really well most of the match as well, and I just tried to stay aggressive as much as I could and tried to make (Martic) run and make her move," Wozniacki said.
Wozniacki, world number 13, grabbed a 4-2 lead in the second set but the 16th-seeded Martic bounced back to level at 4-4 before the Dane broke back and closed out the match.
“I thought I was close," said Martic. "But many players feel this way against Caroline. I felt like I couldn’t keep up with her physically."
Keys led 4-3 in the first set when rain halted her match with Puerto Rico's Puig.
The big-hitting American, who upset top seed Sloane Stephens in the quarter-finals, lost only one more game, winning eight in a row to seal victory.
Keys closed out the first set with a forehand service return, then broke Puig, the Olympic champion, three times in the decider.
Puig did not go quickly in the final game, though, saving three match points before Keys hit a big forehand return on a fourth match point to force an error from Puig.
The rain delay helped Keys.
"Honestly it was good," she said. "I had just gotten broken and I got to go inside a reset. I think I did a pretty good job to close it out."
Keys, who has lost to Wozniacki twice, said meeting the Dane on clay could work in her favour.
"It's a little bit of a slower court," Keys said. "My heavy ball will work better so I think I will be able to do a little more."
(Reporting by Gene Cherry in Raleigh, North Carolina, editing by Pritha Sarkar and Ed Osmond)
Supported by
ByReuters
(Reuters) - Former champion Marcel Granollers used the drop shot to good effect as he surprised fifth-seeded American Taylor Fritz in three sets at the U.S. Men's Clay Court Championship in Houston on Monday.
The 32-year-old Spaniard claimed a 6-2 4-6 6-2 victory over Fritz, the only seeded player in first round action at the River Oaks Country Club.
"Taylor is a player who can hit very hard. He hits very hard from the baseline and I needed to change rhythm," said Granollers, who won the tournament in 2008.
"If I hit good drop shots, I think it’s a good option against him and I think today it worked."
Granollers reeled off three consecutive games, including a break at 5-2, to claim the opening set.
World number 58 Fritz bounced back in the second, surging ahead after Granollers had tied the set at 4-4.
The deciding set was all Granollers after Fritz, the 2018 semi-finalist, took the opening game.
Granollers won five consecutive games before Fritz held at 5-2.
Earlier, Norway's Casper Ruud made his River Oaks debut by defeating Bolivian Hugo Dellien 7-6(7) 6-4. His father, Christian, won the tournament in 1996 when it was a non-ATP Tour event.
Former champion Ivo Karlovic was not as fortunate as Ruud and the 40-year-old Croat, who won in 2007, fell to American Ryan Harrison 6-3 6-4.
Australian Bernard Tomic and Chile's Christian Garin also advanced.
Tomic, firing 11 aces, outlasted American Denis Kudla 7-6(8) 7-5 and Garin came from a set down to top Uruguayan Pablo Cuevas 4-6 6-4 6-2.
Top seeded American Steve Johnson is seeking to become the first player to win three consecutive titles in the tournament since Bobby Riggs did in 1936-38.
(Reporting by Gene Cherry in Raleigh, North Carolina; editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
Supported by
ByReuters
(Reuters) - Former champion Marcel Granollers used the drop shot to good effect as he surprised fifth-seeded American Taylor Fritz in three sets at the U.S. Men's Clay Court Championship in Houston on Monday.
The 32-year-old Spaniard claimed a 6-2 4-6 6-2 victory over Fritz, the only seeded player in first round action at the River Oaks Country Club.
"Taylor is a player who can hit very hard. He hits very hard from the baseline and I needed to change rhythm," said Granollers, who won the tournament in 2008.
"If I hit good drop shots, I think it’s a good option against him and I think today it worked."
Granollers reeled off three consecutive games, including a break at 5-2, to claim the opening set.
World number 58 Fritz bounced back in the second, surging ahead after Granollers had tied the set at 4-4.
The deciding set was all Granollers after Fritz, the 2018 semi-finalist, took the opening game.
Granollers won five consecutive games before Fritz held at 5-2.
Earlier, Norway's Casper Ruud made his River Oaks debut by defeating Bolivian Hugo Dellien 7-6(7) 6-4. His father, Christian, won the tournament in 1996 when it was a non-ATP Tour event.
Former champion Ivo Karlovic was not as fortunate as Ruud and the 40-year-old Croat, who won in 2007, fell to American Ryan Harrison 6-3 6-4.
Australian Bernard Tomic and Chile's Christian Garin also advanced.
Tomic, firing 11 aces, outlasted American Denis Kudla 7-6(8) 7-5 and Garin came from a set down to top Uruguayan Pablo Cuevas 4-6 6-4 6-2.
Top seeded American Steve Johnson is seeking to become the first player to win three consecutive titles in the tournament since Bobby Riggs did in 1936-38.
(Reporting by Gene Cherry in Raleigh, North Carolina; editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — After another day of big serves and topspin forehands in the desert sunshine, just about everyone appeared to get what they wanted: a 39th match between Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal.
The question is, will it actually happen?
Federer, despite being the elder at 37, looks readier to rumble. Between Dubai and Indian Wells, he has won nine straight matches and 15 straight sets and artfully and uneventfully dispatched the unseeded Hubert Hurkacz, 6-4, 6-4, in Friday’s first quarterfinal of the BNP Paribas Open.
But Nadal had to dig much deeper to wriggle free of the firm grip and aggressive game of Karen Khachanov, the brawny young Russian who pushed him hard in the third round of last year’s United States Open.
This time, Nadal prevailed, 7-6 (2), 7-6 (2), but only after Khachanov stretched him repeatedly with huge serves and whipping forehands and only after Nadal needed on-court treatment and tape for pain in his long-troublesome right knee.
And there lies the problem with planning your day or, depending on the time zone, your night around watching No. 39.
Nadal remains one of the greatest, in-the-moment competitors in any sport, but his recent record in hardcourt tournaments is a downbeat litany of withdrawals, retirements and anticlimaxes.
It remains an open question if he will feel hearty enough to play Saturday afternoon’s semifinal. He does not have a day off to recover. He also has the rest of the 2019 season to consider, including his sacrosanct season within a season on clay that is scheduled to start next month in Monte Carlo.
“Of course my goal and my idea is to be ready for tomorrow,” Nadal said after pursing his lips and shaking his head.
But he also knows from long experience with patellar tendinitis that being ready is no sure thing.
“I cannot guarantee how I will feel when I wake up tomorrow,” he said. “But the desire to play a match like this against Federer is always very special, and it’s even more special if we’re both at a high level and at 100 percent. Hopefully it will be that way, above all for me but also for the fans on site and for fans in general. I hope I will be able to play aggressively. I need to be ready to react very quickly and to have everything in place to be able to succeed. If not, it will be very difficult.”
Nadal and Federer first played in Miami in 2004, but they have not met since October 2017, when Federer beat Nadal in the final of the Shanghai Masters. Federer went 5-0 against Nadal in 2017, a resurgent season for both men, after upgrading his ability to attack with his single-handed backhand.
That run of success has narrowed the big edge that Nadal once held in their rivalry; he now leads by 23-15.
“I don’t think those five matches matter that much, to be honest,” Federer said of the 2017 victories. “A lot of time has gone by, unfortunately maybe for the rivalry for us, or for me. It’s always better to keep on maybe playing against him.”
Federer started this season by failing to retain his title at the Australian Open but has responded by going on a roll. After winning his 100th career title in Dubai, Federer is now two victories from his 101st. To get there, he may first have to deal with the man who has been his friendly rival for 15 years and who remains a friend: The two had coffee at Federer’s rented home last week to discuss the state of the tennis world.
“Different styles, different ways to understand the sport,” Nadal said. “And at the same time, two players with a good relationship after all the things that we went through in our careers, competing for the most important things.”
In his first match against Hurkacz, a rangy and powerful 22-year-old from Poland, Federer looked loose from the start as he tested the full range of his skill set.
There was the usual: wickedly sliced backhands, blocked returns and first serve-forehand combination punches. There was also the unusual: chip and charge tactics, serve-and-volley on second serve and no-look flicked backhand overheads.
But it will be hard to be quite so relaxed and experimental against Nadal, whose ability (when healthy) to extend rallies and take command of them with his left-handed, topspin forehand is an entirely different, though much more familiar, challenge.
The two did not play any of the same regular ATP Tour events in 2018, and they did not face off in the three Grand Slam tournaments that they both played: the Australian Open, Wimbledon and the United States Open.
Federer was asked if, after all these years, the matchup with Nadal still gave him more of a thrill than facing an unknown rising player.
“I think a combination,” he said. “If it was only Rafa, I wouldn’t enjoy that as well. I think having the mix is the magic really for me. Playing against young guys to eventually get to Rafa, that’s exciting.”
It was quite an achievement for Nadal to get to Federer through the 22-year-old Khachanov. He was visibly hampered by his knee trouble, which first required treatment on court with Khachanov leading by 2-1 in the second set. Visibly slower and unable to push off as powerfully with his legs to serve, he still found a way to grind and win.
“It’s a special victory considering the way I was feeling,” Nadal said.
Playing with pain has unfortunately become close to the rule on hardcourts for Nadal, who has long complained and warned about the physical toll of hardcourt play.
Nadal, 32, conceded that part of the problem was playing more than 1,100 matches in his career, not just playing on hardcourts. But he also pointed out that other sports tended to be played regularly on grass or on other more forgiving surfaces.
“I love to play on hard, but probably my body doesn’t love it that much,” he said. “And my feeling is there are a lot of players that love to play on hard, true, but their bodies don’t love to play on hard, either.”
He is also concerned about the price he and others might pay in retirement. “When I see some old legends walking around the tour,” he said, “it’s tough.”



Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
PERTH, Australia — After nearly two decades of appearing alongside each other on billboards and in record books, Serena Williams and Roger Federer faced off across a tennis court for the first time on Tuesday.
The incandescent stars, now both 37, finally aligned for the first time by taking part in a mixed doubles match between the United States and Switzerland at the Hopman Cup team event.
On the opening point, Williams pulled Federer wide to his forehand side with a sharply angled volley, then sent a smash toward the opposite corner that he could not reach in time to send back. Long exchanges between the two proved few, however, with each using their serve to effectively neutralize the other.
It did not seem to matter to the crowd of 14,064 in Perth Arena, the highest single-session attendance in the event’s 31-year history, and Williams and Federer clearly delighted in the chance to hit the ball around with each other a couple of weeks before more serious play occurs at the Australian Open.
“It was a great experience,” Williams said as she joined Federer on court after the match. “I’m kind of sad it’s over. It was just warming up.”
Federer and his partner, Belinda Bencic, beat Williams and Frances Tiafoe in an abbreviated format match by the score of 4-2, 4-3 (5-3) in 46 minutes.
Despite the initial, promising exchange in the first set, Williams and Federer seemed to settle into more conservative play; in the entire first set, neither Federer nor Williams succeeded in making a single return off the other’s serve.
(There were, technically, two other people on the court as well. Bencic hit a pivotal return winner off Tiafoe’s serve that helped Switzerland take the lead in the first set.)
Federer and Williams both gained more of a foothold on the other’s serve in the second set, which was highlighted by a six-shot exchange of powerful cross-court groundstrokes between the two before Federer won the point by ripping a forehand toward Tiafoe.
Williams and Federer afterward sized each other up.
“I was nervous returning, because you just don’t know,” Federer said. “People talk about her serve so much, and I see why it is such a wonderful serve, because you just can’t read it.”
“I can’t read yours either,” Williams interjected, laughing.
“We have the same qualities, you know?” Federer said.
“Yours is a bit better,” he added, provoking a good-natured eye roll from Williams.
“It was great, great fun,” Federer added. “She’s a great champion — you see how focused and determined she is — and I love that about her.”
Williams eagerly reciprocated.
“I mean, the guy is great, he’s the greatest of all time, to be honest,” Williams said, drawing applause from the crowd (Williams has said she doubted she could beat Federer in a singles match).
“He has a killer serve,” she said. “Literally, you can’t read it, and there’s a reason why he’s the greatest, because you can’t be that great and not have an awesome weapon like that serve.”
That Williams’s serve would prove daunting to one of the best men’s players is no surprise, especially one day after she had sent a clean ace past the reach of 6-foot 4-inch Stefanos Tsitsipas in a mixed doubles match.
“Like I had any chance of returning that one,” Tsitsipas wrote on Twitter, replying to an image of the serve spinning well beyond his reach.
After Williams insisted that they hold rackets during an on-court selfie, she and Federer walked back to their seats with their arms wrapped around each other, and Federer said his racket was hers to keep.
As she carried it into the players’ area of Perth Arena alongside Tiafoe, Williams stared at the racket with visible wonderment, showing it to her partner and letting him hold it briefly.
“I was so excited,” Williams told reporters. “Literally, it was the match of my career. I don’t know, just playing someone so great, and someone that you admire so much — and a match that actually means something. It’s not often that that happens.”
The mixed doubles win gave the tie to Switzerland, who are the defending champions after Federer and Bencic won the competition last year. Switzerland will qualify for Saturday’s final if it beats Greece on Thursday in Group B. The United States, which lost to Greece on Monday, can not advance.
Williams, meanwhile, expressed mild disappointment at her play, especially considering her superior doubles pedigree of 16 Grand Slam titles to Federer’s none.
“I’m the one that won those doubles Grand Slams, but it didn’t look like it,” she said.
Williams said she had been tempted to bring her 16-month old daughter, Olympia, to the match. She ultimately decided against that, settling for having an unforgettable story to tell her.
“Men and women’s tennis just don’t compete against each other,” she said. “So it’s just really great and special to go against the greatest of all time.”
After this summit of superstars, Federer could tell his children the same thing.


Supported by
On Tennis
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — The last time Serena Williams came here for the Australian Open, in 2017, the talk swirling around her focused on tennis. Could she capture her 23rd major title and break past Steffi Graf on the list of Grand Slam title winners since the sport went professional?
She did indeed emerge victorious,beating her sister Venus in the finaland doing so, she would later reveal to the world, while in the early stages of pregnancy.
On Tuesday, Williams returns to the sunbaked Melbourne courts, with her 16-month-old daughter in tow, bidding for another place in the record books. This time, though, her tennis is nearly an afterthought.
Four months ago, in the final of the United States Open, Williams’s most compelling moments cameduring angry outburstsagainst the umpire that won both praise and criticism, propelling an already epochal athlete to the very forefront of debates about sports andgender, race and power.
That flare-up is still being frequently discussed as the Australian Open begins this week, though Williams herself is not expected to speak to reporters before she plays.
“Serena has actually expanded her presence in people’s lives,” Delia Douglas, a Canadian sociologistwho studies women in athletics, said in an interview. “The way people talk about her, the way people debate her and what she stands for, is now heightened.”
Her tennis is certainly still part of the discussion.
“We all know Serena is very dangerous when she’s fit and when she’s healthy,” said Chris Evert, the former world No. 1 who is now an analyst for ESPN.
But just as many, if not more, focus on what Williams means.
As Soraya Chemaly, a prominent feminist activist and social critic, explained: She fits perfectly in these times, “when so much of what is happening in our world is related to gender and race and power. And right now, you can see it. Serena is sitting at that nexus, at the very intersection of all these important social conversations.”
The powerful combination of her celebrity, the internet and social media amplifies the discussion each year she continues to play, threatening to overshadow the tournaments she plays in.
The last time she played the Australian Open,she was pregnant. Eight months later,she nearly died during childbirth. She named her baby girl Alexis Olympia. Months afterward, she married her daughter’s father, Alexis Ohanian, a co-founder of the popular website Reddit.
Williams, same as ever, did not shy from attention — or from making a point. She shared her story publicly and said she was experiencing the same troubles faced by many other mothers. In her first Grand Slam tournament after childbirth, the 2018 French Open, she was not in shape, and she withdrew with an injury in the fourth round. She wore a sleek, black, full-body tennis suit. It was part fashion statement, part medical necessity — it reduced the chances of a recurrence of blood clots she experienced during childbirth.
But the “cat suit,” as it came to be called, was so controversial that French tennis officials discussed banning outfits like it from Roland Garros in the future. (As a countermove, the WTA, which governs the women’s tour apart from the Grand Slams,clarified its rulesto allow compression garments to be worn without skirts or dresses over them.)
Undeterred, Williams spoke pointedly at Wimbledon about protecting rights of new mothers — on the tour and in the workplace. She marched through the draw. But, still out of shape, shelost in the final. A few weeks later, she withdrew from the Rogers Cup in Montreal, eventuallyciting postpartum depression, a condition that afflicts about 15 percent of all mothers but is often dogged by stigma.
Then came the United States Open.
Nobody here in Melbourne has forgotten what happened during the women’s singles final.Carlos Ramos, the umpire, spotted Williams’s coach motioning at her to be more aggressive. Ramos warned about a coaching infraction. Williams shouted with an angry, unyielding insistence that she had done nothing wrong, that she would never cheat.
Nobody has forgotten the smashed racket, the point deducted as a penalty, her continued shouting: “You’re a thief,” she defiantly yelled at Ramos.
Nor has anybody forgotten the game taken away as another penalty, Williams’s assertion that male players often behave badly and get away with it, the booing and the tumult, and finally her surprising loss to Naomi Osaka, arising starwho may threaten her again in this tournament.
Admirers praised Williams for showing courage, for being willing to stand up to a man, for being a black woman ready to argue her point in front of everyone, for enduring long years of racial slights, for engaging boldly nonetheless — and for never losing any of her fire. (A cartoon with racist imagerylampooning Williams in an Australian newspaper shortly after the U.S. Open was yet another reminder of those slights.)
Critics saw her as unhinged. This had nothing to do with womanhood or being African-American, they said. To them, she had behaved like a spoiled and raving maniac. More than that, they claimed, she had obscured the performance of a lifetime by Osaka, who had played remarkably from the start.
But who could be surprised that Osaka got short shrift? Win or lose, the talk is almost always about Serena.
Chemaly, the social critic, noted how, during a tour for her new book, “Rage Becomes Her,” “people kept bringing up Serena.”
The book urges women to be unafraid of showing rightful anger.
Chemaly said she had been asked: “‘What do you think of Serena Williams?’ ‘What does she mean for this moment?’ ‘How would you compare what happened at the U.S. Open to Brett Kavanaugh’” and the anger he displayed before a Congressional panel?
“People really want to think about what it means,” Chemaly said.
During 2018, Williams, 37, went without a major title for the first time since 2011 (she skipped the Australian Open in 2018, still recovering from giving birth in September 2017), and she did not play another tournament after the U.S. Open.
But this is a new year. Based on her play during a string of exhibition matches in Perth — where fans greeted her warmly — and during practices this week in Melbourne, she looks primed to win again.
If she does, she’ll have achieved yet another milestone: a 24th major singles title, tying the former Australian great Margaret Court, whose Grand Slam championships came in both the amateur and professional eras.
“She seems fitter than last year,” Evert said of Williams. “The scary thought, looking at the women — they have to be thinking at this point, ‘Gosh, she was 60-70 percent last year, reaching two Grand Slam finals. And now she seems fitter, leaner. She’s moving better. She’s fresher.”
People are talking. “She’s so controversial now, everyone here will be paying close attention to that first match,” one local fan, Jess Stow, 34, said, echoing a commonly heard sentiment as she walked with her 2-year-old son near the Australian Open grounds a day before play was set to begin. “What will she end up saying?”
But so far Williams hasn’t said much. In Perth, she avoided discussion of the U.S. Open partly by keeping her news briefing to just a few minutes.
Shedid tell GQ Magazinein November that Ramos, the umpire at the U.S. Open, should have defused the contretemps by telling her about the signals from her coach before punishing her. It would have let her set things straight without the penalty, she said.
“Tell me that something’s happening,” she said, and she would tell her coaching box, “‘Whatever you’re doing, don’t.’”
Otherwise, she has held her peace in Melbourne. Her racket may offer her most meaningful reply.
Follow Kurt Streeter on Twitter:@KurtStreeter
Ben Rothenberg contributed reporting.
Want more Australia coverage? Sign up for the weeklyAustralia Letter, start your day with your localMorning Briefingand join us in ourFacebook group.




Supported by
ByReuters
(Reuters) - Victoria Azarenka used her superior serving and punishing groundstrokes to upset top seed Angelique Kerber 6-4 4-6 6-1 and advance to Sunday's final of the Monterrey Open against Garbine Muguruza.
In a battle of former world number ones the momentum shifted in the Belarusian's favor early in the third set when Kerber committed two double faults in a careless service game to hand Azarenka a 2-0 lead.
Azarenka seized the opportunity, consolidating the break in the next game before cruising to the finish line to reach her first final in more than three years.
"I'm very pleased with how I played today," she said in an on-court interview on a warm night in northern Mexico.
"It was an important match and to see how I can do under pressure against a top player," she said.
"I haven't won many of those in the last couple years so it's good that I'm able to turn it around and pick up my level."
Earlier, second seed Muguruza eased past Slovak Magdalena Rybarikova 6-2 6-3 to book her ticket to the final.
Azarenka came out the victor in her only previous meeting with Spaniard Muguruza, a hard-fought 7-6(6) 7-6(4) win on the hard courts in Miami in 2016.
(Reporting by Rory Carroll; Editing by Amlan Chakraborty)
Supported by
ByCindy Shmerler
DELRAY BEACH, Fla. — Dan Evans finished a practice session last month, grabbed a racket by the strings and marched from the court toward the player locker room.
It was the same path walked by Juan Martín del Potro the night before. For del Potro, a flash mob gathered as fans chanted “Olé, Olé, Olé, Delpo, Delpo,” and implored the popular Argentine to autograph photos, tennis balls, hats, T-shirts and even one man’s bald head.
When Evans walked the route, just hours before he was to take the court against Radu Albot in the final of the Delray Beach Open on Feb. 24, no one stopped him to chat or ask for his autograph. Not a single spectator recognized Evans, a 28-year-old Briton.
He was alone with his thoughts. But he was used to that.
For more than a year, Evans spent most of his time alone after being barred from the ATP Tour for a positive drug test for cocaine. Evans said that while he used cocaine recreationally and out of competition, which is not prohibited in tennis, he tested positive during the Barcelona Open in April 2017 when he left some of the drug in a bag that contaminated other medication.
Evans, who was ranked a career-high No. 41 at the time of his ban, had recently reached his first career ATP final in Sydney. He did not appeal the charge.
The Delray Beach Open was only his fourth ATP Tour tournament since his return in April 2018. He lost the final to Albot in a third-set tiebreaker despite holding three match points, but his ranking is up to No. 100 as he begins the qualifying tournament for the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, Calif., on Tuesday.
With no ability to play tournaments or train during the ban, Evans retreated to his home in Cheltenham on the outskirts of the picturesque Cotswolds, some 90 miles northwest of London. He was forbidden to even practice at any facilities affiliated with Britain’s Lawn Tennis Association for 10 months.
He filled his days quietly playing golf and watching television, though he refused to tune in to any tennis matches. He said he would not even follow tournament results in the newspaper. Some days, he said, it was too painful to leave the house.
“It was a really tough time in my life,” Evans said. “But there were a lot of other people around me who had a difficult year as well. I would be selfish to think that it didn’t affect everyone else in my life.
“Those feelings of anger and hurt at what you did to people don’t go away easily,” Evans added, referring to the pain and embarrassment he caused his family, his girlfriend and a bevy of coaches and supporters.
This was not the first time he had been penalized. In 2006, Evans was pulled from the Wimbledon junior tournament by the L.T.A., the national governing body the sport, for unacceptable on-court behavior. Two years later, he was suspended by the L.T.A. for four months after he was photographed during Wimbledon at a nightclub in the early morning hours. And in 2010, the L.T.A. stopped financially supporting him for underperformance and a poor attitude.
Evans was unranked when he returned from this latest suspension in April 2018 and was forced to start at the lower levels of professional tennis. With no points to defend, and little compassion from his fellow competitors, Evans began entering Challengers, tennis’s version of the minor leagues. He often had to play three matches just to get into the tournament’s main draw. But in August he won a Challenger in Vancouver, British Columbia, and reached the final of another in France in February.
At the ATP Tour level, he was given a wild card to play the event at Queen’s Club in London in June and lost his first match. He tried to qualify for Wimbledon last year, reaching the second round. He qualified for the main draw of this year’s Australian Open and lost to Roger Federer in the second round. His breakthrough at Delray Beach included wins over No. 9 John Isner and No. 35 Frances Tiafoe.
“In retrospect, his journey has been incredibly quick for someone with no ranking,” said David Felgate, Tim Henman’s longtime coach, who began working with Evans just after his return. “Dan doesn’t expect anything from anyone; he doesn’t expect sympathy. He knows what he did to himself. But it does give him a different perspective and may prolong his career. When you realized you missed a year, you want to make up for it. You want this career to go on for a long time because you know what not playing felt like.”
At 5-foot-9, Evans lacks the serving power of tennis’s taller players like del Potro, who is 6-6. But Evans is scrappy off the ground, particularly with his running forehand pass down the line. He also possesses an effective one-handed slice backhand. And he loves to volley, just as his countryman Henman did.
As far as he has come over the last year, he knows he has still got a long way to go.
“Listen, that episode in my life of being banned, it’s over,” Evans said. “Everyone forgave me as soon as I held my hands up and accepted the blame. But it’s not easy to be happy with yourself day in and day out when the fact is, I was No. 41 in the world and I threw it all away.”
He added: “But to say that I’ve grown, that would be justifying it. There’s no sort of philosophical looking back on it. It was the worst thing ever. Now, I’m just back trying to win tennis matches.”



Supported by
ByCindy Shmerler
DELRAY BEACH, Fla. — As Radu Albot became the first player from Moldova to win an ATP title on Sunday, his small home country in Eastern Europe was holding parliamentary elections.
Unlike four years ago, when he was in France for a tennis tournament and spent about $200 on a taxi to the Moldovan Embassy so he could cast a ballot, Albot said he could not make his way to a voting booth on Sunday.
This time, he was busy in the Delray Beach Open final, where he held off Dan Evans to capture the title, 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7), and earn $97,490, the biggest payday of his career.
Albot, 29, has been on tour for more than a decade but is only now hitting his stride. Entering the Delray Beach Open he was ranked No. 82 in the world, just off his career high of No. 81, set nearly two years ago. With the win over Evans, in which he saved three match points, Albot moved to a new career high of No. 52.
Albot is the first player, man or woman, from Moldova to be ranked within the world’s top 100. Most have never broken the top 300.
Moldova, a former Soviet republic with a population of 3.55 million, is better known for producing wine than tennis players. It has, however, had its share of Olympic wrestlers, Nordic skiers and soccer players. Natalia Levchenkova placed eighth in biathlon at the 2006 Winter Olympics.
At the 2016 Summer Games in Rio de Janeiro, 23 Moldovan athletes competed, including Albot, the country’s first Olympic tennis player. He beat Teymuraz Gabashvili of Russia in the first round before losing to Marin Cilic of Croatia. In those Games, one Moldovan, a flat-water canoeist named Oleg Tarnovschi, won the country’s only medal, a bronze that was later stripped because he violated antidoping rules.
The next-highest-ranked male player from Moldova, the 36-year-old Roman Borvanov, reached No. 200 back in 2011. Now a teaching pro near Miami, he was in Albot’s players’ box cheering for his countryman on Sunday.
“In a way, coming from this country, the results I’ve had, it’s a miracle,” Albot said. Unlike players in countries that host a Grand Slam and have a history of producing star players, he said, he had no Pete Sampras or Andre Agassi in front of him as role models and challenges.
“Then you have a goal, you want to be as them,” Albot said. “Me, growing up, I had nobody ahead of me except the guy ranked 200. I wanted to be as him, better than him. But as soon as I got to 190, then what? I didn’t know how to go higher. I didn’t have someone to ask how to get there, to go to for advice. I had to build my game by myself.”
When Albot was 6, his father, Vladimir, saw a tennis match on television and decided he wanted his only child to play the sport. Vladimir Albot was able to arrange for his son to train at a school that specialized in tennis — a government-funded academy near the family’s home in Chisinau, the Moldovan capital. The club has eight outdoor red-clay courts and two indoor courts. Until recently, those courts were made of wooden planks, but they have been converted to a hardcourt surface.
Though his parents were of modest means — Radu still lives with them in the two-room apartment they own — Vladimir traveled with Radu to junior tournaments while his mother, Svetlana, stayed home to work in her dental therapy practice. Vladimir sold some property he owned to fund his son’s travel.
Rather than spend money on hotel rooms, the pair would often sleep on mattresses inside gyms connected to the clubs where Radu competed, Albot said. Whenever Radu was offered a chance to share a room with another competitor, his father would pitch a tent for himself in the tournament parking lot.
100 miles
ukraine
moldova
romania
Chisinau
Black
Sea
Bucharest
Danube R.
By The New York Times
At 13, Albot was playing in Germany, and he met Jimmy Oganezov, a local businessman from the former Soviet Republic of Georgia who had become a tennis coach. Oganezov invited Albot to spend the summer living and training with him in Wiesbaden. That summer turned into more than a dozen summers, and the training convinced Albot that he could have a career as a professional tennis player.
Moldova’s tennis federation generates little sponsorship money for its players, Albot said.
“It’s a little disappointing because in some countries, like the U.S. and France, they get so much help, like sponsors and wild cards,” said Albot, who has a German manager and one sponsorship deal, with Yonex for rackets, clothing and shoes.
“I was not the spoiled kid who got millions at 19 years old,” he said, “but, on the other hand, maybe that’s what makes me stronger.”
Albot had a 12-23 record in tour-level matches last year, including a semifinal finish in Metz, France. This year he has a 10-4 record in five tournaments, including a semifinal finish in Montpellier, France, and the title in Delray Beach. He will next play the Masters 1000 events in Indian Wells, Calif., and in Miami.
When his playing career is over, Albot would like to return to Moldova and help build the next generation of tennis players. He knows it won’t be easy.
The country is among the poorest in Europe, and Sunday’s election has not delivered a conclusive result. There have been accusations of fraud that further threaten the country’s efforts to stabilize.
Still, Albot has hope.
“I don’t want to finish my career and see that tennis is dead in my country,” he said, adding, “I want to walk into every tournament and see the Moldovan flag flying.”


Supported by
ByCindy Shmerler
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — Stephen M. Ross swears he is not embroiled in a third-set tiebreaker with Larry Ellison, the billionaire co-founder of Oracle who bought the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, Calif., a decade ago and transformed it into a tony desert party for tennis players and fans.
Still, when the moved and improved Miami Open begins this week at Hard Rock Stadium, home of Ross’s Miami Dolphins, it will not be hard to imagine Ross, a billionaire real estate developer, keeping a tiny scorecard in his back pocket.
“Larry’s done a great job,” Ross said. “He set the bar high, and it’s all great for tennis. But for us, it’s more natural not to compete, or at least to do so in our own way.”
Ross, who bought the Dolphins in 2008 and spent $550 million renovating the stadium, stepped in when IMG, which owns the Miami Open, found itself at an impasse with a Key Biscayne resident who controlled the land where the tournament had been played since 1987.
That man, Bruce Matheson, refused to allow $50 million worth of renovations to the Crandon Park site, and his prolonged lawsuits convinced the tournament thatit was time to go.
Rather than see the tournament — and its hundreds of millions in local revenue — uprooted from South Florida to Orlando or China, Ross decided to partner with IMG and move the tournament about 20 miles northwest to his football stadium. He spent an additional $72 million to transform it into a state-of-the-art tennis venue.
The move wasn’t well received by everyone.
“Key Biscayne had a very intimate setting, and you can’t beat the drive over the Rickenbacker Causeway, with blue water on both sides of you,” said John Isner, the defending Miami Open champion. “We had a lot of history in that place, and that stadium court will always be very special to me.”
At the new site, a temporary main court was erected on the football field, with half of the seats were blocked off by screens. A 5,191-seat grandstand court, two other show courts and eight additional match courts — all permanent — were built on top of parking lots.
On a recent tour, those lots were indiscernible behind purple flowers, artificial grass, 35-foot mature palm trees costing $35,000 a pop, and a giant fountain that guards one of the many entrances to the stadium. There is also a 40-by-90-foot video screen, the largest in tennis, just outside the stadium in a spot modeled after Wimbledon’s Henman Hill, minus the grass.
The change recalls the United States Open’s move from the charming but outgrown West Side Tennis Club in Forest Hills in 1978 to the more functional, if less romantic, U.S.T.A. Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in nearby Flushing Meadows. It took a while to get used to the new digs, but no one would ever want to go back to the old ones.
“This place has a much larger footprint, so we can do more things,” said Tom Garfinkel, the Dolphins’ chief executive. “We are giving people an unprecedented luxury experience in tennis, just like the N.F.L.”
Tournament organizers did not take the word “luxury” lightly. The stadium court — painted in colors called Oasis Blue and Biscayne Blue — seats 13,800, the same as the main court in Key Biscayne. But this court features 4,738 premium seats, many that resemble Barcaloungers, with individual television screens. These seats range in price from $50,000 to $70,000 for the two-week tournament. Some are right on the court.
Premium-seat packages, most of which were sold out two months before the start of the tournament, include private dining rooms. Some suites have seats made out of Ferrari leather. For a privileged 1,000 visitors, there is a dedicated entrance from a private parking lot, in which spectators pass through a tent lined with art, including works by Pablo Picasso and Andy Warhol that can be purchased for upward of $1 million.
Ticket prices at every level have increased by up to 40 percent over last year, though several thousand grounds passes are available for as little as $15 each day. Sales by the end of last month were up 25 percent, thanks, in part, to Dolphins season-ticket holders who have been cajoled into watching tennis.
“There’s a bit of a challenge in giving people the confidence that this really is for the best,” said James Blake, the tournament director.
Ross helped choose everything on the site: the flowers, the gigantic paintings that line the stadium corridors, the tiles on the bathroom walls.
“I had a picture in my head of what I wanted this to look like, the same way I do my real estate deals,” said Ross, who is also behind Manhattan’s Hudson Yards project. “It’s all in the details. Little things matter. People notice, and they’re watching for those details.”
The number of practice courts, many with spectator seating, have doubled from those at Key Biscayne, to 18. But unlike in Key Biscayne, those courts will not be turned over for the public to play on after the tournament ends.
The players, at least, should be happy. Their amenities have been enhanced, with dining areas and gym spaces tripling in size. The top eight seeds in the men’s and women’s singles draws, as well as all former champions, will be given private suites to be used by their entourages.
But organizers see the event as more than a tennis tournament. The grounds will open at least two hours before play begins each day to encourage people to come early to eat, shop and listen to concerts by local musicians.
“What we wanted was a venue that would allow us the freedom and flexibility to grow and innovate the event,” said Mark Shapiro, president of Endeavor, IMG’s parent company. “Key Biscayne was lovely, but we simply outgrew it. What we’ve got now is going to be supernatural, like walking through a Lollapalooza, and a tennis tournament grew out of it. Forget becoming the fifth major, we’re the new U.S. Open.”



Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — By reaching the semifinals of the Miami Open, the Canadian youngsters Felix Auger-Aliassime and Denis Shapovalov achieved something that Roger Federer and John Isner never managed.
Federer, for all his obvious and precocious tennis talents, never made it to this late a stage of a Masters 1000 event in singles as a teenager. Isner was still a student-athlete at the University of Georgia in his late teens.
But neither Auger-Aliassime, 18, nor Shapovalov, 19, was able to make the next leap on Friday as Isner and Federer took turns holding back youth on the temporary center court at Hard Rock Stadium.
Federer, 37, and Isner, 33, will now play an old-guard final on Sunday.
On Friday afternoon, Isner was opportunistic in his 7-6 (3), 7-6 (4) victory against the silken Auger-Aliassime. In the evening, Federer was brilliant in his 6-2, 6-4 demolition of Shapovalov, a flashy left-hander with a one-handed backhand who grew up idolizing Federer and now has a much clearer understanding of what it is like to face him.
“I just think he has every shot mastered,” Shapovalov said. “When he needs a shot, he’s going to make it. He’s going to go for it. He’s going to make it. I don’t think he has any weaknesses. That’s why he’s the G.O.A.T,” the greatest of all time.
Federer has had more vulnerable moments in his career and even one this month when Dominic Thiem, another younger man with a forceful one-handed backhand, defeated him to win the title in Indian Wells on March 17.
But Federer has been in a very fine patch of form, successfully rebounding from his defeat to yet another member of the new wave, Stefanos Tsitsipas, in the fourth round of this year’s Australian Open.
Since then, Federer is 15-1, all on hardcourts.
Auger-Aliassime is already quite a tennis package: explosive from the baseline, comfortable at the net and smooth on the move as well as in the interview room, where he can reflect in French or English.
On Friday, in the biggest match of his career, the Canadian qualifier acted his age only when it came time to close out a set.
Isner, 15 years his senior, has long been one of the game’s supreme servers. But it was Auger-Aliassime’s own serve that proved his undoing.
Up by 5-4 and serving for the first set, Auger-Aliassime produced his first three double faults of the match and lost his edge.
“For sure, nerves,” Auger-Aliassime said. “It was like I caught a virus or something.”
Up by 5-3 and serving for the second set, he double faulted and knocked a midcourt forehand swing volley into the tape on break point.
He was soon back in another tiebreaker with Isner, for whom tiebreakers are as natural a habitat as a swamp is to a gator.
Isner has played 49 sets this year. More than half (26) have ended in tiebreakers, a reflection of his phenomenal serve and his limitations as a returner.
Though Isner had a losing record in 2019 tiebreakers before this tournament, he has gone 9-0 in the Miami Open.
“I’m just finding myself pretty calm in those situations; maybe it’s a little bit mental,” Isner said. “I’m just definitely playing my best tennis when I’ve been in that situation this week. There is no doubt.”
Isner’s defeat of Auger-Aliassime put him one victory from defending the most significant title of his career. Isner won this Masters 1000 tournament last season, when it was played about 20 miles south of Miami Gardens, on the upscale island of Key Biscayne and with a permanent main stadium.
This year, the tournament moved to the grounds of Hard Rock Stadium, home of the Miami Dolphins.
“A completely different feel than last year, obviously,” Isner said.
There are clear benefits to the shift in site: more spacious and luxurious facilities for fans and players; a less congested commute; a fine vibe on the outside courts despite complaints about insufficient seating. Above all there is the fact that this event, traditionally one of the most prestigious outside the four Grand Slam events, has remained in the United States and in the tennis hotbed of South Florida rather than being moved outside the country, which has been the case for other United States-based tournaments in the past 20 years.
But the downside for now is that the main stadium often has a low-energy atmosphere, and though ticket sales have been brisk, fewer than half of the seats were occupied when Isner and Auger-Aliassime began play shortly after 1 p.m.
The noise and age gap were more pronounced in the second semifinal. Federer is 37. Shapovalov is 19 and was not even born when Federer played his first main-draw match at the Miami Open in 1999.
Federer mentioned that fun fact before the match to his twin daughters, Myla Rose and Charlene Riva, who are 9: closer to Shapovalov’s age than their father.
“They were like: ‘What? Hold on a second!’ ” Federer said. “I did the calculation, and they were like, ‘So this guy is really young?’ ”
Federer responded by telling them he was “really old,” but he certainly did not move like it against Shapovalov, who had practiced with him but never played against him in earnest.
Federer improvised and covered the corners impressively, slashing forehand and backhand winners and hitting deft, precise volleys. The only relative disappointment: a first-serve percentage below 50 percent. But Federer made the most of his first serves, winning 91 percent of the points and avoiding being broken.
“I think I played very well; I had to,” Federer said. “Because I think when you let Denis play, he’s got some serious power and he gets the rhythm going and he can really put you in some uncomfortable situations.”
So, in a very different vein, can Isner.


Jack Ming Jie Lin, a Columbia tennis player, will miss class on Tuesday. He has a good excuse.
CreditCreditJames Keivom for The New York Times
Supported by
ByAdam Zagoria
One recent morning,Jack Ming Jie Lin, a Columbia University tennis player, informed his chemistry professor that he needed to reschedule Tuesday night’s lab because he had another engagement.
“Look,” he said he told his professor, “I have a very important match Feb. 12 and I understand that we’re supposed to have lab session that Tuesday night, but unfortunately, I can’t make it that night.”
Instead of chemistry class, Lin, a 19-year-old sophomore, will be playing his first ATP Tour main-draw match, at the New York Open at Nassau Coliseum. Lin earned a wild card into the first round of the professional event by winning a college invitational in November at Billie Jean King National Tennis Center. Thirty-two players from 16 New York-area universities, including Army, Cornell, Princeton and St. John’s, competed in the tournament, where Lin beatAlafia Ayeni of Cornell, 6-7 (3), 6-3, 7-6 (5), in a final that lasted three and a half hours.
Lin’s appearance at the New York Open isa rare opportunityfor an amateur to test himself against the pros.
“The Knicks can never play a team like St. John’s in a game that actually counts,” said Peter Lebedevs, the assistant tournament director for the New York Open. “In this, it is the pros playing a collegiate player, and it counts for both of them. For a kid like Jack, it’s an opportunity to get points and to get started on a potential pro career after his college or during the summer.”
A native of Markham, Ontario, Lin ended the fall at No. 4 in the collegiate doubles rankings with his playing partner, William Matheson, and is No. 40 in singles. He helped Columbia reach the round of 16 in the N.C.A.A. tournament last season after the Lions won the Ivy League for the fifth year in a row. He owns victories over the current pros Taylor Fritz of the United States and Denis Shapovalov of Canada, but those came in the junior ranks. Shapovalov is ranked No. 25 in the world, and Fritz No. 40.
“Obviously seeing them both develop into such big-time players, I don’t think I’m at their level yet with the results that they’ve been having,” said Lin, who grew up near Shapovalov, 19, in the Toronto suburbs. “I’m just more content with my own improvement over every month.”
The New York Open will feature many top American player, including John Isner, Frances Tiafoe, Steve Johnson and Sam Querrey. The former world No. 1 Lleyton Hewittis playing doubles, as are Bob and Mike Bryan.
Lin will playa qualifieron Tuesday, and if he wins, he would face Johnson, ranked 34th. Some of Lin’s Columbia teammateswant him to face a top playerto see how he matches up.
“I want to watch Jack play against one of the high-caliber guys to see the difference between the ATP guys and the level in college,” said the junior Jackie Tang, who plays for the Hong Kong Davis Cup team in addition to competing for Columbia.
“I think he’ll do well because I don’t think the gap is that big. I think it’s just the experience and the knowledge of how to play certain points correctly.”
John McEnroe, who played a year at Stanford, has been a supporter of college tennis, pointing out that top-10 players like Isner and Kevin Anderson have had pro success at older ages after maturing while playing college tennis. Most recently, Danielle Collins, a two-time N.C.A.A. champion at Virginia, advanced to the semifinals of the Australian Open at 25.
Lin said: “Honestly, I think college tennis is the best it’s ever been. There are so many transitional players playing at such a high level.”
Lin’s mother, Sally Yi, is set to come from Toronto, and many of Lin’s coaches and teammates plan to root him on as well.
“I love these play-in formats where it’s not just arbitrarily granting a wild card to somebody,” said the former American star Andy Roddick, who kicked off the tournament on Saturday with an exhibition match against Jim Courier. “It’s a good story that somebody came in and earned it and this is what you get for your troubles.
“What’s better than being able to work your way into the matches that you dream about?”
Roddick joked that he would advise Lin not to take the prize money so that he can remain an amateur. Linhas not planned that far ahead.
“Obviously, playing the event’s not really about the prize money,” he said. “It’s just more about getting the opportunity to play in front of everybody on such a big stage and play against the top guys on the ATP level just to assess what my level is.”
At 5-foot-11, Lin is short for a sport where more than half of the men’s top-15 players are at least 6-4. But he is a shotmaker and is working on becoming more aggressive by coming to net more.
Lin, who hopes to someday be a top-100 player on the ATP Tour, considers himself part of the rising wave of Canadian players that includes Shapovalov andFelix Auger-Aliassime. He played for Canada’s Davis Cup team, but opted to come to the United States to focus on academics and tennis.
“In Canada, there are a lot of great universities there too, but they kind of lack the competition in tennis of playing in the States,” he said. “Playing N.C.A.A. tennis, it allows me to continue developing my game and obviously at the same time pursue my academic goals.”
Balancing the two sets of goals has been a battle. The men’s tennis team as a whole carries a 3.74 grade point average, and Lin does not want to let his teammates down.
“There’s a lot of things going on, but he’s managing,” saidBid Goswami, in his 37th season as the Columbia tennis coach. “He doesn’t want to be left behind in his studies. He had a really good last two semesters.”
As for that chemistry lab, Lin suggested to his professor that he move it to Wednesday night, but if he wins on Tuesday, he won’t be able to make that session, either. He’ll be back on the court playing his second-round match at the New York Open.
In fact, he would have several schedule conflicts to manage. The Columbia team is flying to Chicago on Wednesday for the Intercollegiate Tennis Association national championships, which begin Friday.
“If Jack wins his first match on Tuesday night and misses our flight to Chicago for national indoors,” the Columbia assistant Howard Endelman said, “that’s a good problem to have.”
Supported by
ByMotoko Rich
TOKYO — If anyone can stir Japanese national pride at the moment, it is Naomi Osaka.
The world’s No. 1-ranked player in women’s tennis, Ms. Osaka is among the biggest stars in Japan, splashed across television programs and advertisements for Nissan cars and Citizen watches. As a mixed-race person, she has alsohelped prompt a discussion about how Japanese seetheir country.
But a looming deadline — Ms. Osaka’s 22nd birthday in October — has raised the question of whether she can continue to represent Japan on the international tennis circuit, where she has given the country bragging rights on the world sports stage.
Ms. Osaka,whose mother is Japanese and father is Haitian-American, has citizenship in both Japan and the United States. UnderJapanese law, dual citizens must choose between the two nationalities by the time they turn 22.
That legal clause has left fans and commentators trying to guess whether Ms. Osaka will pick citizenship in Japan, the country of her birth, or the United States, where she has lived since she was a young child.
The choice facing Ms. Osaka comes as Japan is under pressure to loosen its entrenched insularity. Japan has long prized racial purity, seeing a largely homogeneous population as crucial to social cohesion. But with the country’s population declining and employers increasingly desperate for workers, its legislature passed a law in Decemberto admit more guest workers, starting this month.
Ms. Osaka’s case, along with the new influx of foreigners, could exert new pressure on the government to begin to bring Japanese citizenship laws in line with those in the roughly three-quarters of countries, including the United States, that allow dual citizenship.
For now, though, Ms. Osaka has a decision to make. When asked by reporters which nationality she intended to choose, she responded with trademark feistiness.
“I’m pretty sure it’s obvious,” she said at a news conference following the China Open in October. “I’m playing for Japan. Not to be disrespectful or anything, but I don’t really get where the conclusion that it’s a hard choice for me or anything comes from.”
Still, it might be hard to imagine Ms. Osaka giving up her American citizenship to keep playing under the Japanese flag. And in reality, she may not have to. Legal experts say the Japanese government rarely enforces the law requiring citizens to choose between nationalities.
The Justice Ministry estimates that about 890,000 Japanese citizens may also hold foreign passports, and the government has never revoked Japanese citizenship from anyone who, like Ms. Osaka, was granted citizenship at birth. (Japanese citizens who voluntarily naturalize in another country automatically lose their Japanese citizenship.)
But some analysts warn that because of Ms. Osaka’s celebrity, it would be difficult for the government to quietly give her a pass on dual citizenship.
“I think for the government it is a problem if she openly carries on having two passports,” said Sachiko Horiguchi, associate professor of anthropology at Temple University’s Tokyo campus. “Because that means the public would know that the law isn’t really enforced. I don’t think the government wants to admit that or the public to know that.”
Three years ago, when Renho Murata, whose father is from Taiwan, ran as the first woman to lead the opposition Democratic Party,right-wing critics attacked herbecause she had not formally relinquished her Taiwanese citizenship.
Partly in response to the frenzy over Ms. Murata, Kimi Onoda, a member of Parliament from the governing Liberal Democratic Party who was born in the United States to an American father and a Japanese mother, formally renounced her American citizenship.
Ms. Osaka’s multicultural background has challenged Japan’s notions of national identity, and she has become the most prominent mixed-race and mixed-nationality figure in a country where only one in 50 children born each year has a foreign parent. Though she is not fluent in Japanese, she has captivated the country with her whimsical remarks to the news media, as well as her humility in victory.
Her parentsdecided when she was youngthat she and her sister, who also played, would represent Japan, partly because the American tennis federation showed them little attention.
Anticipating Ms. Osaka’s citizenship choice, Michio Ushioda, a former columnist for The Mainichi Shimbun, a daily newspaper, and a professor at Teikyo University in Tokyo, said on Twitter that Japan would fall into a national funk if she elected American citizenship over Japanese.
“The disappointment of the Japanese at that time would be great,” Mr. Ushioda wrote in atweet that only select followers could view, even suggesting that Japan’s current administration would collapse if Ms. Osaka competed for the United States in the Olympics.
UnderInternational Olympic Committee rules, competitors must be nationals of the countries they represent. Similarly, underInternational Tennis Federationrules, Ms. Osaka could not play for Japan if she gave up her Japanese citizenship.
Legal experts say Japanese law provides a loophole through which dual citizens can effectively retain both nationalities. The law requires only that a Japanese citizen “endeavor to renounce” foreign nationality, a phrase that can provide just enough wiggle room for citizens to hold on to an extra passport.
“Many people misunderstand the law and feel threatened that they have to choose a nationality,” said Yasuhiro Okuda, a law professor at Chuo University.
Until 1985, Japan granted citizenship only to children whose fathers were Japanese. When it changed the law — a move it made under pressure from international critics who said the rules discriminated against women — the government added the clause stipulating that children with dual citizenship would have to choose between their passports by the time they turned 22.
Analysts say Japan’s law makes little sense in a modern world filled with multicultural citizens like Ms. Osaka.
“It goes against Japan’s efforts to recruit and retain global talent,” said Erin Chung, a professor of East Asian politics at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. “If you basically maintain the spirit of the current nationality act, that will be a huge deterrent for athletes and other members of what’s called the global talent pool to stay in Japan.”
For older generations, opening Japan to a pool of newly naturalized citizens could generate a considerable political backlash.
But younger Japanese are growing more accustomed to living and working with international neighbors and colleagues.
“Young people in their 20s now are much more familiar with foreigners or so-called ‘hafu,’” said Satoko Takeda, a visiting researcher at Osaka University of Economics and Law, using the Japanese term, from the English word “half,” to describe those of mixed-race descent like Ms. Osaka. “They are different from previous generations. I think there is hope.”
Makiko Inoue contributed reporting.



Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — As part of her morning routine, the Canadian teenager Bianca Andreescu finds a quiet place and visualizes success, big success.
“It’s crazy to think that it became a reality today,” she said after the roars had faded on Sunday afternoon.
Not so crazy if you observed all the shots and grit that Andreescu had to summon under duress to defeat tennis elder after tennis elder in the desert and win one of the most prestigious titles in the sport.
But it was certainly far-fetched when you considered her lack of experience at this level and the quality of the players she had to outhit and outwit, including the three-time Grand Slam champion and former No. 1 Angelique Kerber, 6-4, 3-6, 6-4, in Sunday’s final.
Andreescu, 18, is the first wild card to win the BNP Paribas Open.
“Hopefully, this moment can be a great inspiration for many young athletes because, like I always say, if you believe in yourself, anything is possible,” Andreescu said during the award ceremony.
While she won her first tour title, Roger Federer was unable to win his 101st, losing to Dominic Thiem, 3-6, 6-3, 7-5, in the men’s final later Sunday. Thiem, the No. 7 seed, reached the French Open final last year, but this Masters 1000 title was his most significant victory.
He earned it — just barely — by putting his huge baseline power and flashy one-handed backhand to work and by breaking the 37-year-old Federer at 5-5 in the third set and then holding firm.
“I think it’s not my right to congratulate you; you have 88 more titles than me,” Thiem said to Federer, who is, nonetheless, now 2-3 against the young Austrian.
Kerber, age 31 and seeded eighth, was unable to prevail against Andreescu despite a huge edge in experience. This was Kerber’s 29th final on tour, and only Andreescu’s second. Kerber had won more than $27 million in career prize money; Andreescu had won just $350,000.
Kerber also had an apparent physical edge in the final phase of a grueling match, played in 80-degree weather. Andreescu arrived on court with her right shoulder and right forearm taped after winning six matches en route to the final.
“My shoulder has just been really, really tight,” she said. “That was more for prevention.”
She required more treatment on her arm early in the third set, but despite looking bone weary between points, crouching down and stretching repeatedly, she found the will and, above all, the patterns and talent to finish off Kerber on her fourth match point.
When it was over, Kerber kissed the teenager on both cheeks. Andreescu then crossed to the opposite side of the net, kissed the blue court and rolled onto her back, her arms and legs splayed as she basked in the sun and in one of the game’s most unexpected great performances.
Though most Canadians at home could not watch the match on terrestrial television — only streaming was available outside of Quebec — her compatriots definitely noticed.
“Bianca Andreescu just made history. Congratulations,” Justin Trudeau, the Canadian prime minister, posted on Twitter shortly after her victory.
Women’s tennis, which is in a deeply compelling phase, has had a number of breakthrough performances of late, includingNaomi Osaka’s run to the title at Indian Wells a year agoas an unseeded player, when she was 20. That presaged Osaka’s victories at the United States Open and the Australian Open and her rise to No. 1, where she remains.
Andreescu was asked if she saw that as inspiration.
“No pressure,” she answered quickly, smiling.
Her questioner apologized.
“It’s totally fine,” Andreescu said. “Yeah, it’s definitely inspiration seeing her claim the trophy last year, and winning two Grand Slams right after that has been amazing to see. But I don’t really want to focus on the future right now. I just want to enjoy this moment, because I don’t want to take anything for granted. You never know what next week brings. I just want to savor this.”
Next week will bring the Miami Open, where she has a first-round match scheduled against Irina-Camelia Begu of Romania, the player she had to rally to defeat in the first round in three sets at Indian Wells.
“She’s not seeded and won’t get the extra day of rest,” her coach, Sylvain Bruneau, said. “So of course it’s a challenge to go right to Miami with very little rest and with the emotions and everything. But it’s like that, and you have to go with it. It’s the learning curve and the job.”
Andreescu, the only child of Romanian immigrants, is the youngest woman to win at Indian Wells since 17-year-old Serena Williams did so in 1999.
“You just played amazing the whole tournament, so you really deserved to win the title here,” Kerber told Andreescu in her postmatch on-court remarks.
Andreescu did not emerge from obscurity. She was a highly regarded junior player who won the prestigious Les Petits As title in France, and though she was not the dominant junior at the Grand Slam level in 2016 and 2017, she did win two Grand Slam girls doubles titles.
In January, Andreescu upset Caroline Wozniacki, then No. 3 in the world, and Venus Williams to reach the final of the tour event in Auckland, New Zealand, and then qualified for the Australian Open, where she won her first Grand Slam singles match.
But her run in the California desert was still a huge leap, and the element of surprise certainly worked in her favor. The last six of her seven matches were against players she had never faced on tour: Dominika Cibulkova, Stefanie Voegele, Wang Qiang, Garbiñe Muguruza, Elina Svitolina and Kerber.
The tour’s veterans will now have a better idea of what to expect, but it will not be easy to identify areas of weakness.
Andreescu has a remarkably complete game for a player of any age, much less an 18-year-old. Despite struggling physically at times against Svitolina in their semifinal and again versus Kerber, Andreescu was still able to display her full palette of all-court skills.
“I think she has a tennis that is really complete, and on the mental side, she’s a warrior,” said Bruneau, who helped her on the mental side with some well-chosen words on coaching visits in the second and third sets on Sunday.
Andreescu can bang groundstrokes at a world-class clip or change pace abruptly with slice. She also can hit rolling, off-speed, angled winners from either wing that might well become her trademark. Time and again, she kept Kerber, a counterpuncher who thrives on consistent pace, from settling into a rhythm.
Andreescu can attack the net or defend in the corners with her foot speed and excellent footwork. She has a strong first serve and, perhaps more important in the return-focused women’s game, a solid second serve that is difficult to attack.
Andreescu also likes the drop shot, which can be a joy and a curse — as was evident against Kerber. Andreescu hit some exquisite winners and some tight, untimely errors with the risky shot. But after failing to convert three match points on her serve at 5-3 in the third set, she roared back after the changeover to break Kerber’s serve for the victory.
Ranked No. 60 before the tournament began, Andreescu will be 24th on Monday. She has more than quadrupled her career prize money, earning $1,354,010 for her victory.
Not bad, given that she still does not have a high-school degree, which she is trying to complete online.
“I’m on that, but it’s hard because after practice, that’s the last thing I want to do,” she said. “I’m just so tired, but I believe knowledge is power.”



Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — The story of Juan Ponce de León searching for a fountain of youth in Florida may be apocryphal, but this week at the men’s event of the Miami Open, there seems to be something revitalizing in the water.
Felix Auger-Aliassime, an 18-year-old Canadian qualifier, is the youngest man to reach the semifinals in the tournament’s history. His compatriot and friend Denis Shapovalov, 19, will join him in the semifinals after beating the American Frances Tiafoe, 6-7(5), 6-4, 6-2, in a quarterfinal Thursday evening.
Auger-Aliassime, ranked 57th, booked his spot in the semifinals with a 7-6 (3), 6-2 win over 11th-seeded Borna Coric on Wednesday night. Coric, 22, was eight years younger than the next-oldest quarterfinalist, but still far more experienced than Auger-Aliassime, who is in the main draw of a Masters event for just the fifth time.
“Playing Borna, who’s been established for a few years now, I definitely didn’t expect to win,” Auger-Aliassime said, adding that he was especially surprised with how he was able to control the second set after a grueling opening set that lasted more than an hour.
“I felt like I had margin over him, had a bit of an edge,” he added. “I just felt really comfortable out there from the first balls.”
Excitement and expectations preceded Auger-Aliassime years before he was ready for the professional tour. He wasa highly touted juniorby the time he turned 15; his matches on small courts at the 2015 United States Open were swarmed with scouts and sponsors.
His potential, evident then, is clearer now. Like many in his generation, Auger-Aliassime is comfortable on all parts of the court; he hit a particularly convincing sliding forehand volley winner to extend his lead to 2-0 in the second set.
Shapovalov and Tiafoe relished knifing sharply angled drop volley winners during their match Thursday, exchanging a high-five at the net after one particularly sublime shot by Shapovalov.
Ranked 182nd a year ago, Auger-Aliassime, who grew up in Montreal, broke into the top 100 after reaching the final of the ATP tournament in Rio de Janeiro in February. He is poised to be ranked 33rd on Monday and would crack the top 20 if he wins the title on Sunday.
Auger-Aliassime and Shapovalov are the second and third teenagers to reach the Miami Open quarterfinals since 2007, when Andy Murray and Novak Djokovic did (Alexander Zverev did it in 2017). Murray, Djokovic and the eight teenage boys to achieve the feat before them went on to reach the No. 1 ranking and win at least one Grand Slam title. (A 17-year-old Rafael Nadal first beat Roger Federer in Miami, in 2004. He reached the final the next year.)
“Obviously it’s a privilege to be compared to all these great players,” Auger-Aliassime said. “I think it just shows that I’m doing good things, I’m on the right track.
“But, yeah, I think I’m seeing the long term, and right now I’m just enjoying every day, enjoying every match, because you never know what’s going to happen next.”
Auger-Aliassime’s success in Miami comes on the heels of another surprising run by an 18-year-old Canadian:Bianca Andreescu’s title last weekin Indian Wells.
As women’s tennis is being lifted by the breakthroughs of young players like Andreescu and Naomi Osaka, men’s tennis has been eagerly awaiting new blood as players in their 30s like Djokovic, Federer and Nadal continue to dominate the tour.
“You have a lot of newcomers with talent gunning for them, and every week it feels like someone new is making a breakthrough and playing well,” said Shapovalov. “I think it’s really healthy to see a couple new stars in the game, and the fans get to watch something new, other than the top four.”
The ATP began a campaign few years ago to highlight its “Next Gen” players; the results have been mixed. While four quarterfinalists in Miami are 22 or younger, the four others are 30 or older.
Zverev, now 21, is ranked third, but has struggled in Grand Slam tournaments. Stefanos Tsitsipas, 20, has risen to No. 10, spurred by a run to the Australian Open semifinalsthat included a win over Federer.
Shapovalov had his breakthrough moment at the 2017 Rogers Cup in Montreal, beating Nadal, ranked No. 1 at the time, en route to reaching the semifinals as a 17-year-old. He thenreached the fourth roundat the U.S. Open.
Tiafoe, 21, was in his first Masters quarterfinal, backing uphis quarterfinal runat the Australian Open in January.
There is hope that this tournament is further evidence that reinforcements are finally ready to replenish the men’s tour. Tiafoe believes it’s already happening.
“I wouldn’t say we’re ‘Next Gen,’” Tiafoe said. “I think we’re definitely here, knocking on the door to do some good things.”
Auger-Aliassime will face seventh-seeded John Isner, 33, on Friday for a spot in the final. Auger-Aliassime’s record against top players is limited but spotless: he is 5-0 against top-20 opponents.
How Auger-Aliassime’s form will translate into Grand Slam tennis played over best-of-five sets is still an open question. At last year’s U.S. Open, his only main-draw appearance at a major, he retired in the third set of his first-round match against Shapovalov because of heart palpitations.
Federer, 37, remains the oldest player in the draw. He will play his quarterfinal match against Kevin Anderson, 32, on Thursday night.
Federer turned 19 the day Auger-Aliassime was born. Federer said he enjoyed seeing members of the young generation square off against one another, particularly savoring the fourth-round match between Shapovalov and Tsitsipas, which was decided in a third-set tiebreaker.
“I loved seeing them slug it out, and I’m sure they are going to have big matches down the road,” Federer said. “I like when they also have to play each other a little bit, because they don’t look across the net and see a guy ranked whatever it is. It’s just another guy they know from the juniors, and ‘I’m just going to beat you up now.’”
WOMEN’S SEMIFINALSIn a women’s semifinal that was delayed by five hours because of intermittent rain on Thursday afternoon, 12th-seeded Ashleigh Barty reached the biggest final of her career, beating 21st-seeded Anett Kontaveit 6-3, 6-3.
In the final, Barty will face fifth-seeded Karolina Pliskova, who denied the No. 2 seed, Simona Halep, a win that would have returned her to the top world ranking. Pliskova won, 7-5, 6-1. Barty, 22, will make her debut in the WTA Top 10 on Monday.



Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — For the first three games, Serena Williams was in a deep, irresistible groove: pounding serves and ground strokes as Garbiñe Muguruza watched the winners zoom by.
Who could have known, as Williams took a quick 3-0 lead, that she would not win another game on Sunday?
With Williams visibly hampered, increasingly slow on her feet and unable to hit serves at full power, Muguruza reeled off seven straight games. Muguruza was up to a 6-3, 1-0 lead before Williams walked to her chair instead of changing ends, sitting down heavily and then retiring from this third-round match at the BNP Paribas Open.
The WTA Tour announced that the reason for Williams’s retirement was a “viral illness.”
“Before the match, I did not feel great, and then it just got worse with every second: extreme dizziness and extreme fatigue,” Williams said in a statement released by the tournament. “By the score, it might have looked like I started well, but I was not feeling at all well physically.”
Muguruza, a tall, powerful Spaniard who is seeded 20th, said, “We played many times, and it’s always supertough and superexciting, and it’s never good to see someone not feeling well on the court.”
The retirement was the latest on-court setback for the 37-year-old Williams, who has had some remarkable results since returning to the tour last year after childbirth but has yet to win a title.
This was her second tournament of 2019 and only her third event in six months. Last September, she reached the United States Open final before losing her cool and the match to Naomi Osaka.
In January, she quickly hit plenty of high notes again on her way to the quarterfinals of the Australian Open, where she rolled her left ankle while holding a 5-1, 40-30 lead in the third set against Karolina Pliskova.
Pliskova went on to save four match points in all. She won the next six games and the match, 6-4, 4-6, 7-5.
It was an unprecedented Grand Slam collapse for Williams, one of the supreme competitors in the history of women’s tennis.
But Williams returned to Florida and the practice court and then returned to action at Indian Wells on Friday, playing one of the finest matches of her comeback, defeating Victoria Azarenka, 7-5, 6-3.
“We’re both moms, and we know how hard it is and how hard it’s been for us to come back, you know, and starting literally from scratch and fighting our way back,” Williams said. “It’s been an arduous road, and I think we both really appreciate both of our efforts to do the best that we can do.”
When Williams returned to Court One to face Muguruza, she was soon striking the ball as cleanly and convincingly as she had against Azarenka.
“I thought that match with Vika was such a high level of tennis from both of them,” said Kathy Rinaldi, the United States Fed Cup captain. “And today, Serena started off carrying on. It was coming off the racket, easy power and very consistent.”
It was their first meeting since Muguruza defeated Williams to win her first major singles title at the 2016 French Open.
But Williams, back in the top 10 and seeded 10th, could not sustain her remarkable level. Muguruza raised her own, fighting to hold serve in the fourth game, breaking Williams in the next game and then ripping a series of backhand down-the-line winners to hold serve at love and even the match at 3-3.
“I think she started playing well right away, with her serve, with her shots, being very dominating,” Muguruza said. “I had to adapt a little bit my position in the court, the way I was hitting. And it took me a few games to kind of do it. Once I did it, I felt much more comfortable to be able to release my tennis.”
Williams started the seventh game with an off-balance double fault into the net and began hitting first serves consistently below 100 miles per hour. She double faulted again later in the game and barely moved as Muguruza hit a forehand winner to go ahead, 4-3.
Williams then walked very slowly to her chair and looked frustrated on the first point of the next game, taking a huge, angry cut at a forehand return that she hit into the net.
“At the end of the first set, I felt maybe she wasn’t feeling well, yeah,” Muguruza said.
Williams soon provided confirmation. After losing the set, she called for a trainer and was eventually surrounded by the tour supervisor Donna Kelso, the trainer Paige Kensrue and a tournament physician. Though Kensrue arrived on court with a blood-pressure cuff, she did not take a reading on Williams and no official medical timeout was taken.
After extended discussion, Williams returned to the court to start the second set but did not win another point as Muguruza held serve at love.
One of Williams’s signatures is that after the first game of a set, she does not change ends on the chair umpire’s side of the net, crossing over on the opposite side without approaching her own seat. But she changed her routine this time, heading straight for her chair and then retiring.
It was only Williams’s third midmatch retirement since 2009. Her next scheduled event is the Miami Open later this month.
“I think Serena always has the confidence,” Rinaldi said. “Look at her record coming back from having baby Olympia: two finals of Grand Slams. I think she knows what she is capable of. Self-belief, I don’t think that’s an issue. Obviously today was a little bit of a setback, but I think since she came back that she has gotten better and better and stronger.”


Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MELBOURNE, Australia — Danielle Collins, who had not won a match at a Grand Slam tournament before this year, pummeled second-seeded Angelique Kerber in the fourth round on Sunday, sealing the most stunning result of the Australian Open with a 6-0, 6-2 victory that took just 55 minutes to complete.
Collins commanded the match from the beginning, dictating play by aggressively attacking, particularly with her two-handed backhand. She hit 29 winners in the match, compared to just six for Kerber.
Kerber, a three-time Grand Slam champion from Germany, had few solutions for Collins and was unable to use her counterpunching to wrest control of the match at any point.
“It was completely not my day,” Kerber said. “I was not playing the tennis that I can play. She played really well. I think she played one of her best matches, to be honest. She hit, yeah, every ball in the court.”
After losing the first set in just 20 minutes, Kerber walked off the court of Margaret Court Arena in an apparent effort to change the momentum of the match, leaving Collins grinning as she waited.
Kerber won the first two points after she returned, playing with a renewed purpose and shouts of encouragement to herself, but Collins again announced her presence in the match by screaming, “Come on!” back at Kerber after hitting a drop-shot winner on the third point.
Collins’s pugnacious attitude is well known in tennis, and something she readily acknowledges and embraces, calling it “just part of the deal with me” on court.
“I mean, you all know: I’m my own person; I’m feisty,” she said. “I love making it kind of a war. If somebody wants to get in my face on my unforced errors, I have no problem getting right back at them and making it a feisty match. I love that, embrace it. I love when things get competitive.”
The tenacity in her tennis extends to off-court pursuits as well.
“Even karaoke — I don’t have a good voice, but I always try to do the best at whatever I’m doing,” said Collins, a 25-year-old Floridian. “If I’m not, I still tell myself I’m the best. You’ve got to believe it, right?”
That unshakability was clear as Collins closed out her victory. Kerber broke in the first game of the second set after their verbal exchange, but Collins broke back in the next game, and then pulled ahead of Kerber for good when she broke again for 4-2.
Mat Cloer, one of Collins’s coaches, said that she had played “pretty flawless” in the first set and had done what she needed to retain the momentum.
“You knew after the first set that she was going to come out and make that second push,” Cloer said of Kerber. “And she did, and Danielle handled it really, really well. She showed great composure, but also didn’t back down. She lost the first game of the second set, but she showed that she was a little fiery at Angie.”
He added: “I think that allowed her to show, ‘I’m still here, and I’m going to fight this through,’ which I think didn’t make it easy for Angie to get out of it — and Danielle just kept going.”
Collins, a two-time national champion in singles for the University of Virginia, is the first collegiate player to reach the quarterfinals of women’s singles at a Grand Slam event since Lisa Raymond at the 2004 Australian Open.
“I think going to college helped me develop myself as a person,” Collins said. “I really know who I am, the type of person I am, what I want, what I want to do with my life, what I want to do with my tennis.
“I have other interests and passions aside from tennis. I’m able to relax a little bit more, maybe, than some other people because they’ve kind of just been doing tennis their whole life, haven’t really ventured out much.”
Collins did her homework before the biggest victory of her career, watching footage of Kerber’s matches.
“I had a clear mind-set of what I was going to do,” Collins said. “From the very first point, I showed her that I wasn’t going to let her into the match, that I was going to dictate the entire way through. I stuck to my game plan. It clearly worked out well for me, pretty much smooth sailing throughout the entire thing. I was just feeling really great.”
Collins has been a quick study in the elite levels of professional tennis. Ranked 162nd a year ago, she broke through witha run to the semifinals of the Miami Openlast March, beating Venus Williams en route.
Collins, now No. 35 in the rankings, will face 44th-ranked Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova on Tuesday for a spot in the semifinals after Pavlyuchenkova upset No. 5 Sloane Stephens, 6-7 (3), 6-3, 6-3. Simon Goffin, Pavlyuchenkova’s coach, said he knew Collins could rise to the occasion of an opponent like Kerber.
“She really likes these big stadiums, to play against the seeds, to be a bit of an underdog,” Goffin said of Collins. “She really likes this. She’s a tough challenger. She likes a big challenge, she likes a fight, so I’m not surprised.”
Collins did not moderate her hopes for the next match.
“Hopefully, another amazing match of tennis for me,” she said in her on-court interview, one of several answers that drew startled gasps from audience members not used to such unapologetic self-assuredness.
Collins said she was animated by antagonism.
“I just love competition,” she said. “Whether people are for me or against me, I’m not really fazed by it. I love it. Either way. I kind of like it more when people cheer against me sometimes because I want to get them back, prove them wrong.”
Despite Collins’s ability to build up her ranking, success at Grand Slams did not come until this tournament. Her first-round win over 14th-seeded Julia Görges was her first main draw victory at a Grand Slam event.
In her news conference, Collins pointed out that her draws in her three previous Grand Slam matches had been far from enviable, as she opened against a top-20 opponent each time.
“I did everything I could in those situations,” Collins said of her losses to Caroline Wozniacki, Elise Mertens and Aryna Sabalenka. “Sometimes it just doesn’t go the way you want it to. Everybody gets their shot at the pie. Right now I’m certainly getting mine. I’m doing very well. I’m just kind of focused on that.”
In her on-court interview after the victory, Collins made it clear that she was confident of further slices of sweet Slam success.
“I may not have won a Grand Slam match before this,” she said. “But I’ve got to tell you: I think it’s going to keep happening.”


Supported by
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — Sometimes Grand Slam breakthroughs, even for the most hyped and promising tennis players, come when least expected. Consider the case of Frances Tiafoe, the 21-year-old American hopeful who limped into this year’s Australian Open with little to suggest his first week would unfold in the stirring way that it has.
An electric talent who has been talked about since his midteens because of his potential and hardscrabble history, Tiafoe, ranked 39th, staggered through the end of last season. Then he went winless in a string of early January exhibition matches in Perth. Six days before this tournament began, he was outgunned at a warm-up tournament in Sydney by the Australian journeyman John Millman.
“Perth was terrible,” Tiafoe said. “Sydney was bad.”
Buzz? The kind of stirring expectations that surrounded the Federer slayer Stefanos Tsitsipas, the 14th-seeded Greek player, going into Melbourne?
Around Tiafoe, there was no buzz.
But all that changed over the first week of this tournament, a stretch that Tiafoe, a 6-foot-2 power hitter, capped on a hot Sunday afternoon with a round-of-16 win over Grigor Dimitrov, who was seeded No. 20. The score was 7-5, 7-6 (6), 6-7 (1), 7-5.
It was a third straight upset for a player who, entering this tournament, had never won a match at the Australian Open and had been in the draw only once, in 2018. Now, with a surprise win on his 21st birthday, Tiafoe has launched into the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam for the first time.
“It means the world,” said Tiafoe, known for his unvarnished candor, speaking to a packed crowd at Melbourne Arena after the match.
For all the hard work in a match that lasted nearly four hours, he next faces Rafael Nadal, the second seed, who has won the Australian Open once, in 2009. Nadal, of course, will be an overwhelming favorite. But Tiafoe will have a confidence he has never had before, and strong backing from fans.
Tiafoe, one of the few black male players in pro tennis, has become a crowd favorite in Melbourne, captivating crowds with his personality, flair-filled game and bare-chested celebrations that have followed each of his three big upsets. (He has made a habit of ripping his shirt off after a win, pounding his chest and his right biceps, and punching the air, a nod to moves made by LeBron James, one of his idols.)
“This is crazy man, this is crazy,” Tiafoe said a few hours after the match. His eyes sparkled. He looked as if he were in awe of his accomplishment. He recalled his past. Tiafoe’s parents fled a civil war in Sierra Leone in the 1990s and settled outside Washington. His father had been a custodian at a public tennis center in College Park, Md., and young Frances and his twin brother learned the game there.
In his early teens, Tiafoe promised his family that he would one day become a star tennis player, and take care of everyone.
“I obviously wasn’t a normal tennis story,” he said.
In the beginning of his career, he said, he had been playing for his family. Not long ago, he bought his mother a house and he is indeed providing his family with a comfortable life. “Now,” he said, “I’m trying to do it for me.”
Dimitrov, 27, is a tour stalwart known for his immense talent, long among the world’s top-20 men’s players, and the winner of eight tour titles. But from the start of this match, Tiafoe, who has won just a single title, gave as good as he got.
The match turned in the second set tiebreaker. Facing a trio of set points, Tiafoe responded as he has all week — first in his win against Kevin Anderson, one of the tournament favorites, and then over the 35th-ranked Italian veteran Andreas Seppi. He buckled down, kept his chin up and a spring in his step, and scorched a series of winners and error-inducing groundstrokes. Not long afterward, aided by a Dimitrov double fault, the set was his, and soon the match.
“In that tiebreak, as much as I was playing better and better, he just kept coming back with good answers,” said Dimitrov, whose own Grand Slam coming out came in 2014, when he lost in the Wimbledon semifinals to the eventual champion, Novak Djokovic.
On Sunday, after a match point in which a Dimitrov groundstroke fell into the net, Tiafoe bent over in the moment, hands on his knees, stunned. Who could blame him? He had struggled at the end of last year, losing matches a player of his talent is expected to win.
His traveling coach, Zack Evenden, explained that a turn came following the painful defeat two weeks ago to Millman, ranked No. 37, at the Sydney International.
“Millman wanted it more,” Evenden said. He recalled Tiafoe realizing that he could learn from the Australian journeyman, who is deeply admired on tour for his doggedness. “Talent is not enough to get you where you want to be. You’ve got to turn up for every single point. You have got to want it, and want it bad.”
Tiafoe now goes up against a player who has 17 Gand Slam titles and is perhaps the greatest competitor in tennis history.
Nadal “is going to run me like crazy,” Tiafoe said after the match. Then he flashed the self-assurance that comes with a first major tournament breakthrough: “He better get ready.”
An earlier version of this article misstated the given name of the Italian player Frances Tiafoe beat. He is Andreas Seppi, not Andrea.
Follow Kurt Streeter on Twitter:@kurtstreeter.


Supported by
On Tennis
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — Novak Djokovic played his first official tennis match in more than a month on Saturday night, defeating the American Bjorn Fratangelo in straight sets at the BNP Paribas Open.
But Djokovic has hardly been taking an extended break from official tennis business.
Back at No. 1 in the world by a hefty margin, he is also wielding his renewed clout off court as president of the ATP player council. As a result of his maneuvering, the men’s tour is in need of a new chief executive along with some collective purpose and peace of mind, which are likely to remain more elusive than Djokovic and his allies might like.
As ever, the tension is between the players, who understandably want to maximize their earnings in a brutally competitive sport, and their paymasters, who own and operate the tournaments and understandably would rather keep prize money under tight rein. But the unusual and inconvenient thing in men’s tennis is that the players and paymasters are part of the same internally conflicted organization: the ATP.
“We are really blocked,” said Gilles Simon, the French player and a former council member. “The structure works against us and the imbalance being already there between the tournaments and the players, the imbalance endures.”
Acrimony is inevitable. Progress is not. Last week, Djokovic and the players appeared to send a strong message when the player representatives on the ATP Tour’s board of directors voted against extending the contract of Chris Kermode, the ATP’s executive chairman and president, who will now be obliged to step down at the end of 2019.
But such a political power play is only intimidating if the players are truly united, which seems far from the case.
The player council, in a nonbinding vote before the board meeting, could not reach agreement on whether to recommend or reject Kermode’s extension.
In an age of constant communication, the biggest stars are somehow struggling to connect. Roger Federer, a former president of the player council, said Sunday that he had reached out to Djokovic before the vote only to be told that Djokovic could not squeeze him in.
“That’s hard to understand for me,” Federer said.
Rafael Nadal, a supporter of Kermode and continuity, said his cellphone was primed and ready, but no calls or texts came his way.
This sounds more like high school than a global professional sport.
“They are representing us, so normally they have to ask, what’s our opinion? Not in every small decision, but in big decisions,” Nadal said. “In my opinion, this one was a big decision.”
The players and the tournaments each have three representatives on theATP board of directors. The chairman — Kermode since 2014 — has the ability to cast a tiebreaking vote but would prefer to avoid it when possible for fear of endangering support from one side of the divide.
It is a difficult dance even in the best of circumstances, and Kermode seems to have stepped on the wrong feet.
Djokovic did not vote him out. That was up to the player representatives that he and the player council have supported or voted into place: David Egdes, a Tennis Channel executive; Alex Inglot, the director of communications at Sportradar; and Justin Gimelstob, the Tennis Channel commentator and former American player, who remains the most polarizing back-room figure in the sport andhas remained in placedespite facing felony battery charges.
Under the ATP’s voting system, Kermode needed majority support (at least two votes) from each camp to continue. He received all three of the tournament representatives’ votes but apparently failed to get any of the player representatives’ votes.
In a letter to ATP staff last week after his ouster, Kermode said it was “ironic” that he was leaving after “the players have achieved some of the greatest gains in the history of the ATP Tour in the past five years.”
Kermode, a former low-level pro player and high-level tournament director, is a polished and genial Briton who knows how to work a room but apparently not every boardroom.
Running the ATP Tour is a compromised position to begin with; the real power in tennis lies with the four Grand Slam tournaments, which function independently. Still, he navigated his position of weakness for more than five years, securing sponsorships and a hard-won prize money increase from the top tier of ATP tournaments.
He also led the creation of new events like the Next Gen ATP Finals, designed to promote young players like 19-year-old Canadian Denis Shapovalov, who will eventually have to step out of the ink-black shadow cast by Federer, Nadal and Djokovic.
“From what I know of Chris, he was unbelievable,” Shapovalov said.
But clearly not everyone is in the Kermode fan club.
He is seen by some of the players as a “tournament guy,” a characterization he rejects. Others grumble about his handling of the ATP Cup, which will be relaunched in the opening week of the 2020 season in Australia.
With the new-look Davis Cupusing a similar format, Kermode tried to avoid a team-event glut by working toward a combined event. But he was overruled last year by the players.
There is also criticism that he did not secure more prize money gains, above all from the four Grand Slam events. As council president, Federer once spearheaded a successful push for major increases, but with Grand Slam revenues growing, the concern is that prize money has not kept pace.
Federer and Nadal could re-enter the fray. They talked tennis governance over coffee at Federer’s rented house here last week. But for now, it is the 31-year-old Djokovic’s turn to lead on court and off. He is multitasking at a point in his career when family time is ever more important to him and when he is again on the verge of holding all four of the Grand Slam singles titles.
Why bother with tennis politics at this stage?, I asked him.
“I tend to ask that myself, as well,” he said with a grin. “But I feel that it is my responsibility, in a way, as a top player to contribute to the sport in that way, as well.”
Even if he charts a steadier course in the months to come, putting a more “player friendly” ATP chief in place looks all but impossible with the tournament representatives effectively possessing veto power on the board.
Changing the governance structure, as Djokovic has suggested, sounds nearly as tricky.
Craig Tiley, the chief executive of Tennis Australia and a driving force in the Australian Open’s growth, would be a strong ATP leader and has been interested in the chief executive post in the past.
But with mutual trust at low ebb and no player union in sight, it is likely a compromise candidate will take over.
Sure, tennis needs change and fresh ideas. But when you tear down a building, it seems best to have a clear idea what will stand in its place.



Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — It’s a familiar sight to have a top player’s sister in the draw of the Miami Open, where this year Venus and Serena Williams are both competing for a 17th time.
But this tournament is the first time at a WTA-level event that top-ranked Naomi Osaka was joined in the singles main draw by her older sister, Mari.
Everyone else in women’s tennis is ranked below Naomi Osaka right now, including Mari, 22, who is ranked 338th, and normally plays lower-level events.
She received a wild card for this tournament and played her first WTA main draw match on Thursday against another wild card, 205th-ranked Whitney Osuigwe. Osaka acquitted herself well in a 6-2, 6-4 loss.
Naomi Osaka, who is 18 months younger than her sister, said that it was “really enjoyable” to have her Mari with her at a tournament, and that she hoped it would be an experience they shared far more in the future.
“For me it would be a dream,” Osaka said. “Because I don’t really talk to that many people, and she’s the nicer one in this relationship. It would definitely mean a lot.”
Though siblings like the Williamses or Marat Safin and Dinara Safina have risen to the peaks of the sport, siblings with far different career altitudes are more common.
Naomi Osaka’s opposite number in the men’s tour, top-ranked Novak Djokovic, had two younger brothers who struggled in the large shadow he cast. Despite receiving many wild cards, Marko Djokovic reached a career-high ranking of No. 571; Djordje Djokovic reached No. 1,463. Marko, 27, now coaches and competes only occasionally, while Djordje, 23, stopped competing in 2015.
Novak Djokovic, 31, said that his brothers’ decisions to step back from tennis had come as a relief to him.
“I’m glad they’ve decided themselves what they want to do, because in the end of the day it’s something that gives me satisfaction and peace, knowing that they made the decision, not myself or my parents or anybody else,” Djokovic said. “Because in this kind of circumstance, they feel obliged, or they feel pressure that they have to meet the expectations of the other brother or sister. Because if you’re part of the same sport, naturally, everyone will compare you to your other siblings. It’s not ideal, especially if your other sibling is the best in the world.”
Siblings of top players have often drafted off that familial fame to get started in their career, but the main draw wild card for Mari Osaka raised many eyebrows around the tournament, considering she was ranked more than 200 spots below the cut for the qualifying draw for this elite event. James Blake, the Miami Open tournament director, said the decision to double the number of Osakas in the draw had been an easy one.
“Obviously Naomi is someone that’s accomplished so much, and you want to encourage her sister as well,” Blake said. “You wonder if there’s a lot of talent and she hasn’t had the same opportunities. We know she’ll also be a draw. Naomi has so many fans; Mari is going to hopefully gain some of those fans by association.”
Blake, who reached a career-best of No. 4, had a brother, Thomas, who reached 264th — a parallel that he admitted tinted his view.
“He got some wild cards, definitely with the Blake name,” James Blake said. “He really appreciated them. Mari has thanked me, her parents have thanked me. They realize that this is a big opportunity for her.”
It is rarer for the younger sibling to make a splash on tour first. For most of their childhoods, Mari had dominated her younger sister in practice matches.
“Up until I was 15 she was 6-0-ing me, ridiculous,” Naomi said. “I don’t know what happened, maybe finally something clicked in my head, but for sure she was beating me. In the win-loss record, she’s up by like a million or something.”
Both entered the qualifying draw of the WTA tournament in Stanford, Calif., in 2014. Naomi, then 16, reached the main draw and then stunned the 2011 United States Open champion, Samantha Stosur, in the first round.
“It’s probably the second-best win of my life,” Osaka said after that victory, “the first being when I first beat my sister.”
As Naomi continued to soar upward, Mari’s trajectory stalled; her career-best ranking was 280th last May. Before Thursday she had not competed for more than a month because of a right shoulder injury. Her first match this season was a 6-0, 6-0 loss to 471st-ranked Katie Volynets, a far cry from the competitive level she showed on Thursday.
Mari Osaka said she was determined to play this tournament, knowing for the past six months that she would be awarded a wild card.
“It was just super exciting and new for me,” Mari said of the experience. “I’m super thankful that I actually got it.”
She smiled at the mention of her sister’s rise from 70th to first in the rankings since the beginning of last year. “I’m really proud of her,” Mari said.
Asked if she was able to focus on her own path or felt she had “big shoes to fill,” Mari said: “My own journey is separate, but of course I tend to compare a little bit, so it’s frustrating. But, you know, not much I can do about that.”
Osaka then abruptly broke into tears. She apologized, accepted a moderator’s offer to leave the room to regain her composure, and returned several minutes later.
When she returned, she was able to focus on the positives she took from the match.
“I played this match with no pain, which I haven’t done in such a long time,” she said. “It feels really good, like I can keep moving forward from here.”


Supported by
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — At the start of this year’s Australian Open, the French tennis player Lucas Pouille was a man severely overlooked.
He had come to Melbourne, after all, on the heels of a 2018 season that dripped with disappointing losses, trying more than anything else to simply recapture a sense of joy on the court.
Expectations? Any that existed were extremely slim, Pouille said, as he looked back Wednesday on a tournament that now stands as the most thrilling of his seven-year career. Slim, from those on the outside looking in, he said, and “even from myself.”
But in the world of professional tennis, slim expectations can grow Grand Slam fat with remarkable speed. They certainly have this week for Pouille. On Wednesday afternoon at Melbourne Park, the Frenchman moved into his first Grand Slam semifinal with a sharp 7-6 (4), 6-3, 6-7 (2), 6-4 victory over Milos Raonic of Canada, the lumbering former Wimbledon finalist with the massive serve who was seeded 16th.
Pouille, who had never won an Australian Open match before last week, now faces a nearly impossible task. The final is within his reach. But to get there he must beat Novak Djokovic, who currently rules men’s tennis with an iron grip.
Not long after Pouille and Raonic left Rod Laver Arena, Djokovic breezed into the final four, his quarterfinal match done in just 52 minutes when the eighth-seeded Kei Nishikori, of Japan, retired with a leg injury. Djokovic led by 6-1, 4-1 at the time, and had never been pushed. It was a gift. A match that short and stress free will help Djokovic, seeking his seventh Australian Open title, keep his body fresh at the stage in this tournament when he most needs it, especially since he had struggled through a bruising, four-set win over Daniil Medvedev earlier this week.
Pouille, 24 years old and seeded 28th, burst onto the scene in 2016, with quarterfinal showings at Wimbledon and the U.S. Open, wherehe beat Nadal.
Last season, however, was tennis purgatory. True, his ranking did rise briefly to a career-high No. 10 in March. But he also failed to get past the third round of any of the major championships. He lost to players ranked outside the top 100. And as the year ended, he suffered through a string of early tournament defeats.
“I lost that joy being on the court,” he said, reflecting on last year after his quarterfinal match, which he won behind strong serving and a steady dose of returns that left the 6-5 Raonic off balance. “For some reason, I don’t know really know why it happened. I t did. You lose one match, two matches, three matches, then you lose confidence.”
Searching for a solution, he last month replaced his old coach with Amélie Mauresmo, the 39-year-old former pro who is a hero in France because of her pair of Grand Slam singles titles and because she is the last French player, male of female, to reach world No. 1.
Other top male players are coached by a woman, but those female coaches are relatives. Pouille’s arrangement with Mauresmo continues to be a story line, even though Mauresmo has coached men before, notably Britain’s Andy Murray, whom she guided to the Melbourne final in 2015.
“Men are coaching women, so why not the contrary?” Pouille said at his news conference. “It’s not about being a man or a woman, it’s about knowing tennis, about having the good state of mind.”
He summed up the ways that Mauresmo has helped him turn a corner. She creates “a cool atmosphere,” he explained. “We’re not too serious. We can laugh. We can make jokes. Once we go and hit the balls, we are really into it.”
In other words, balance.
And more: “I think she’s bringing a lot of confidence to my game.”
Pouille will need every ounce of cool confidence, and likely the best tennis of his life, if he is to beat Djokovic on a packed center court stadium Friday.
Will Pouille be overlooked once again?
Not a chance, said Djokovic. “I always thought he’s a great player,” the Serb told the assembled reporters in the wake of his own quarterfinal win.
Pouille “deserves to be definitely at the top 15, maybe top 10 of the world,” Djokovic added. “He’s got that quality and potential, no question about it. Here we go. It’s the semifinals. We both want to get to the finals. Hopefully we can both be fresh and fit and put on the great show.”


Supported by
On Tennis
ByChristopher Clarey
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — Another week on the 2019 tennis circuit, another different champion.
April is just about here, and no man or woman has yet managed to win more than one singles title on the main circuit this season.
“That’s amazing, isn’t it?” Ashleigh Barty said after keeping the streak alive on Saturday with a 7-6 (1), 6-3 victory against Karolina Pliskova in the Miami Open final.
But though Barty, an Australian, was the 14th WTA champion in 14 events, her winning a title of this magnitude bore no resemblance to a fluke.
Her game is a varied thing of beauty, mate, and though at 5 feet 5 inches she is far from the most imposing player on tour, her tennis has been standing taller and taller in 2019.
She was a finalist in Sydney, a quarterfinalist at the Australian Open with many of her sports-savvy compatriots piling on the pressure by tracking her every stroke. She was then the key figure in Australia’s 3-2 victory over the United States on the road in the Fed Cup.
Though Elina Svitolina stopped her in the round of 16 at Indian Wells by winning the longest match of the women’s season (3 hours 12 minutes), there was no stopping Barty in Miami.
There was no stopping Bob and Mike Bryan either. The twins, who have formed one of the greatest doubles teams in tennis history and will turn 41 on April 29, defended their men’s doubles title with a 7-5, 7-6 (6) victory over Wesley Koolhof and Stefanos Tsitsipas.
The title came eight months after Bob Bryan underwent hip resurfacing surgery on Aug. 2, 2018. He believed then that his playing career was over, but they have now won two titles since reuniting this season. The first came at the Delray Beach Open last month, but Saturday’s victory was a step up, coming after they saved four match points in the semifinals against Lukasz Kubot and Marcelo Melo.
“If you would have told me in August when I was getting surgery that I was going to defend the Miami Open title I would have said you are full of it, really,” Bob Bryan said.
Barty, seeded No. 12, defeated three top-10 players: Kiki Bertens; Petra Kvitova, who had stopped her runs in Australia; and Pliskova.
Already an established doubles champion, Barty will be a part of the singles top 10 for the first time on Monday, moving to No. 9 and becoming the first Australian woman to break into that group since 2013, when Samantha Stosur was at her peak.
But Barty, now 22, is the undisputed leader of Australian women’s tennis at this stage, as underscored by her 6-0, 6-3 victory over the 35-year-old Stosur in the round of 32 in Miami.
Her Australian roots go deeper than most: Her father, Robert, is an Indigenous Australian, a part of the Ngarigo people. She has embraced that heritage, taking on a role as a tennis ambassador in the indigenous community, joining the former champion Evonne Goolagong Cawley, who was a part of the Wiradjuri people and who won seven Grand Slam singles titles from 1971 to 1980.
Barty is, in many respects, an old-school tennis talent. Her off-court demeanor is upbeat, articulate and modest. (She favors “we” and “team” more than “I” when discussing her rise.)
Her on-court demeanor is understated, close to stoic. There was barely a grunt and nary a shriek as she and Pliskova exchanged blows on the temporary main court that has been installed this year in Hard Rock Stadium.
Even if there had been more shouts and murmurs, it would have been a challenge to make them out given the poor acoustics that muffle noise even when a crowd is much bigger and more boisterous than it was for Saturday’s final.
But it is Barty’s tennis that is the true classic. She has pure technique, including a potent loop topspin forehand and a powerful, match-winning serve full of disguise and power, which she generates with great leg drive and racket-head speed.
Pliskova, a former No. 1 who was seeded No. 5 in Miami, leads the tour in aces. But Barty won that duel within a duel, finishing with 15 aces to Pliskova’s six and winning 86 percent of her first-serve points to Pliskova’s 66 percent.
Barty can also thrive at the net (she won the United States Open doubles title last year with CoCo Vandeweghe) and can drive a two-handed backhand or hit a one-handed slice with enough bite to cause a world of geometric pain for tall players, like the 6-1 Pliskova, who thrive on higher strike zones and consistent pace.
Variety, it seems, is all the rage in women’s tennis. Bianca Andreescu, the 18-year-old Canadian wild card who made a stunning run to the title at Indian Wells, also has a diverse array of weaponry and, like Barty, a pronounced midrally taste for changing rhythm.
“I have always tried to bring as much variety onto the court as possible,” Barty said. “It’s always about trying to neutralize what your opponent’s doing. Obviously, there was a bit of a phase in women’s tennis where there was this big power and first strikers that were getting on top of rallies early. But I think the physicality in tennis, especially on the women’s side, has grown, which has allowed more players to neutralize off that big first ball and work their way into points.”
She proved her point repeatedly on Saturday, displaying her improved returns and tracking down Pliskova’s flat bolts in the corners and slicing them back into play. But she has ample punching power of her own and quite an upside. It is easy to see her thriving on clay (see the French Open) and grass (see Wimbledon).
It is also easy to imagine that this breakthrough could have come earlier if she had not decided to step away from tennis after the 2014 United States Open and focus on cricket instead. But in her view, it was that break, which ended in 2016, that has allowed her to better manage the expectations and begin fulfilling her tennis potential.
“I think I was an average cricketer, and I’m becoming a better tennis player,” she said. “It was certainly an enjoyable time in my life. It was a time that I think I found myself a little bit more as a person, and I met an amazing group of girls and a new circle of friends, I suppose. But I think tennis was always my calling.”
So it seems after the most significant victory of her career: The Miami Open is a part of the top tier of events on the regular tour, below only the four Grand Slam tournaments and the season-ending WTA Finals in prestige.
Barty might be merely one of so many tennis winners in 2019, but she has the ability and the personality to not only be a serial champion but a popular one, as well.

Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — Back on the march as the best player in men’s tennis, Novak Djokovic stumbled in the desert sunlight on Tuesday on his favorite surface.
Djokovic flubbed some forehands and returns he normally makes in his third-round match at the BNP Paribas Open and cracked a racket in frustration. But he also ran into an inspired opponent in Philipp Kohlschreiber, a 35-year-old German who had lost seven straight matches to Djokovic but has long savored the memory of surprising Djokovic in the fourth round of the 2009 French Open.
Now, nearly a decade later, Kohlschreiber has another upset tale to tell.
No, Djokovic was not at his precise and predatory best, but Kohlschreiber still had to summon plenty of quality shot making and decision-making under pressure to finish him off, 6-4, 6-4.
“Of course you always need the No. 1 not playing his best tennis to beat him, but I’m very happy with my performance,” Kohlschreiber said.
It was a rough day all around for No. 1s. Naomi Osaka, the top player in the women’s game, was more soundly beaten. She lost, 6-3, 6-1, in the fourth round to Belinda Bencic in just 66 minutes. Osaka has won the last two Grand Slam singles titles, yet Tuesday’s result was no shock. Bencic, who just turned 22, is yet another great talent from Switzerland, land of Roger Federer and Martina Hingis. Bencic broke into the top 10 as a teenager in 2016 before left wrist surgery stopped her ascent.
She broke Osaka’s powerful serve five times in this brief encounter and proved more steady from the baseline, as well. She is now on a 11-match winning streak after winning the title in Dubai and has five victories over top 10 players in the last month.
“My injury just changed my perspective,” said Bencic, the No. 23 seed. “I learned so much from this time, and I’m really enjoying to be on the court.”
Hardcourts remain Djokovic’s happiest hunting ground. Ten of his 15 Grand Slam singles titles have come on the surface that suits his elastic athleticism best.
He also has won five singles titles at Indian Wells, but after winning three straight times here in 2015, 2016 and 2017, he has run into early-round trouble.
Last year, in the midst of a deep funk and still recovering from elbow surgery, he made 58 unforced errors in an opening-match defeat to Taro Daniel, a Japanese qualifier. But this year, Djokovic arrived on an undeniable roll after sweeping to victory at the Australian Open, manhandling Rafael Nadal in the final.
Djokovic has won three straight Grand Slam singles titles and will hold all four for the second time if he can prevail at the French Open in June and complete another so-called “Djoker Slam.”
He is still in the doubles here after reaching the semifinals with partner Fabio Fognini later on Tuesday, but only the tournaments ahead will show if Djokovic’s singles performance was a blip or a harbinger of more struggles.
“I had to get over it in an hour, because I played doubles,” Djokovic said. “I must admit I was thinking about it. When I hit a good return, I was wondering why this didn’t happen in singles. But it is, I guess, part of the world that we are, the world of tennis. It’s part of our world, and we just have to bounce back very quickly.”
Djokovic said competing in the doubles gave him “a chance to rectify the wrongs,” but that his singles performance would not affect him in the long run.
“I know what I’m capable of,” he said. “I know the quality of my tennis. It’s just one of those days. You just have to congratulate your opponent and move on.”
The timing was intriguing, coming after a week replete with tennis politicking. Djokovic, as president of the ATP Player Council, spent the days before the tournament in meetings and debate, and the ATP’s board of directors ultimately voted last Thursday not to renew the contract of Chris Kermode, the tour’s chairman and chief executive.
There has been plenty of pushback on the decision, with Nadal and Federer both pointing out that they were not consulted by Djokovic or council members in the run-up to the Kermode decision. Federer said he had reached out directly to Djokovic who had been unable to find time on his schedule for a discussion.
But then neither Nadal nor Federer are on the council at this stage, although both have served in the past. Federer, a former president, has acknowledged that the role can be draining, particularly in fraught times, and Djokovic spoke about that challenge on Sunday after defeating American Bjorn Fratangelo in his opening match.
“I care about the current generation and also the future generation and future of this sport,” Djokovic said. “I think that the sport is doing well, but it can also do better and better, you know, as we go along. And if I, with my status and with my position in the world of sport and tennis, can influence that positively, then why not? Yes, it takes away in energy and time, but I know I do it from the right place in my heart and with the right intent, and then I also receive a lot of energy for that.”
He has received some criticism, too, but appears intent on trying to push for structural reforms on the ATP Tour, which could include dividing Kermode’s role into two separate positions, or changing the size or composition of the board.
Success is far from guaranteed considering the internal tensions that exist in the ATP: an organization that is a long-running and often uneasy partnership between the players and those who own and operate the tournaments.
It would be all too easy to get distracted.
But some rejected any such speculation on Tuesday and emphasized Kohlschreiber’s performance. Among them: Nick Kyrgios, the unpredictable and intermittently committed Australian who won a hardcourt title in Mexico last week in style but was beaten, 6-4, 6-4, by Kohlschreiber in the second round here.
“Something has to be wrong with him right?” Kyrgios tweeted on Tuesday, referring to Djokovic. “I lose to Kholi and get absolutely shredded ‘same old kyrgios’ how about the guy is just good? And he knows how to win matches? Hate this, why we always gotta kiss these guys when they lose?”
Kohlschreiber was unseeded here but not by much with a world ranking of 39. Quick and powerful, he has one of the prettiest one-handed backhands in the game yet does his most consistent damage with his forehand.
But in truth, he needed all his tennis tools to win on Tuesday after rain suspended play on Monday night after just one game. He also needed to put 71 percent of his first serves in play and save three of four break points against the game’s premier returner.
“I think I was not unhappy with the rain delay,” he said. “I think the warmer conditions suited my game more today. I was fresh. I had two good wins. So everything came together.”
Such moments have been hard to come by in the game’s biggest events during Kohlschreiber’s career, which has coincided with one of the greatest generations of stars in tennis history. Federer, Nadal and Djokovic have 52 Grand Slam singles titles between them.
Kohlschreiber said he appreciated their greatness but also appreciated the benefits of minor as opposed to major celebrity.
“I’m still able to walk on the street or go to, I don’t know, McDonald’s and there is just a few guys saying, ‘Oh, that’s maybe Kohlschreiber,’” he said. “I don’t know if Roger or Rafa can do that.”


Supported by
On Tennis
ByChristopher Clarey
The main clay-court season is officially underway, and this time around it is particularly unclear how the dust might settle.
If Rafael Nadal is truly healthy after aggravating a right knee injury three weeks ago — he has been training at home to prepare for the Monte Carlo Open — he remains the man to beat on the game’s grittiest surface. No one else has won 11 French Open singles titles, and the rational assumption is that no one else ever will.
But the women’s game is in a wondrous state of flux, with 14 different champions in the season’s first 14 tournaments. And none of them was named Serena Williams, Maria Sharapova or Simona Halep.
“It’s by far the most wide-open field as far as I can remember,” Chris Evert, the former No. 1 and a seven-time French Open champion, said in an interview Tuesday. “No one seems to have obvious momentum above the other. It’s not only the closeness in talent and skills. Attitudes, emotions and fitness and injuries enter into it as well. I have no clue.”
Serena Williams has not won a title since returning to the tour in March 2018 after giving birth to her daughter. She has played only three tournaments this season and has not finished any of them feeling healthy. She twisted an ankle while on the brink of victory in anAustralian Openquarterfinalagainst Karolina Pliskova and lost a 5-1 third-set lead, unable to convert on four match points.
In Indian Wells, Calif., Williamsretired in the third roundagainst Garbiñe Muguruza, citing a viral illness. In Miami,she withdrewafter winning her opening match, citing a left knee injury. Williams is 37, and her knees have long been a concern, restricting her training through the years. She does not plan to compete again until the Italian Open in Rome in mid-May, shortly before the French Open.
That will leave her short of matches against an increasingly deep and confident field, which is full of young, exciting talents with all-court games who have grown up dealing with big pace. Williams’s quest for a record-tying 24th Grand Slam singles title, which once looked like only a matter of time, is now a more complicated matter.
But discounting Williams is rarely a winning proposition. She has managed to play some sparkling tennis in 2019, striking the ball very cleanly in some of the early rounds in Australia and again in her victory over Victoria Azarenka in Indian Wells.
“A healthy Serena is a dangerous Serena; she hasn’t been healthy all year,” Evert said. “She still has an edge in power and experience.”
Williams also has the most impressive career record on clay of any active player: 170-34. Her career winning percentage of 83.3 puts her ahead of Sharapova, who is at 81.5 percent with plenty of doubt swirling about her form and her tennis future at age 31.
Happy off the court but vulnerable on it, she has not competed since January because of injuries and has not reached a tour final since winning the Tianjin Open in October 2017.
Halep has the best clay-court numbers over the last few seasons and leads the WTA Tour’s clay-court power rankings, which give more weight to recent results.
But even as she again closes in on being No. 1, Halep, 27, has hardly been dominant. Oui, shewon last year’s French Open, her first Grand Slam singles title. But she has not won another clay-court title since Madrid in May 2017 and has not won a tournament on any surface since the Rogers Cup in Canada in August.
Without Darren Cahill as her coach this season, Halep has not looked like the same resolute and selectively aggressive force, although her run to the semifinals of the Miami Open last week was encouraging.
The biggest prizes in 2019 have gone to younger women, all under age 23.
Naomi Osaka, 21, won theyear’s first Grand Slam titleat the Australian Open and remains No. 1 by a whisker.Belinda Bencic, 22, won the Premier 5 event in Dubai. Most surprisingly,Bianca Andreescu, 18, won the Premier Mandatory event in Indian Wells, and then Ashleigh Barty, 22, confirmed her steady rise bywinning in Miami.
Andreescu and Barty have the skills to thrive on clay — their strong topspin forehands, quick feet and ability to hit sliced backhands, well-disguised drop shots and heavy first and second serves.
But the big-hitting Osaka has a losing record on clay (9-11) and likes to call herself “a hardcourt player.”
She also has lost momentum sinceher surprising splitwith her coach, Sascha Bajin, after the Australian Open. She has hired Venus Williams’s former hitting partner, Jermaine Jenkins, a college star with a reassuring courtside demeanor. But for now, Osaka is only 3-3 since winning in Melbourne, with losses to Kristina Mladenovic in Dubai, to Bencic in Indian Wells and to the changeup artist Hsieh Su-wei in Miami.
Novak Djokovic, the men’s No. 1, also has the wind in his face after losing early in Indian Wells and Miami. But he has won three Grand Slam singles titles in a row, and it is difficult to disregard the memory of Djokovic having his way from the baseline against Nadalin the Australian Open final.
Nadal, 32, continues to battle his body. A recurrence of tendinitis in his right kneecaused him to withdrawbefore his semifinal against Roger Federer in Indian Wells. At this stage, he knows too well the price of pushing through pain, although pain has been a constant. How much longer can he do it?
“Who knows? Perhaps two or three years more,” Toni Nadal, his uncle and former coach, said at a recent appearance in Majorca. “What I say is that Rafael is not a person who plays tennis. He is an injured person who plays tennis, and that is very difficult.”
Nadal is back training hard in Majorca on a surface that is more forgiving to his joints than hardcourts. He is on schedule to defend his title in Monte Carlo this month. Djokovic and No. 5 Dominic Thiem, Nadal’s two most obvious rivals for the biggest men’s clay-court titles, are expected to challenge him there. So is third-ranked Alexander Zverev, who has a fine clay-court record and the talent to win multiple majors but has been slumping.
Federer, back on a roll at age 37 afterwinning in Miamiand intent on returning to clay after a three-year break, plans to come back in Madrid in early May after training in Switzerland.
“I still think Rafa is in a great place on clay,” said David Macpherson, the coach of John Isner, the top-ranked American, who may miss much of the clay-court season with a stress fracture in his foot. “The only one who has shown the ability to break up Rafa’s game at times is Novak, with his ability to smother that topspin forehand early with his pure two-handed backhand and negate Rafa’s strengths on clay. So that’s always a fascinating matchup.”
But based on all the plot twists and ankle twists in 2019 so far, there are no guarantees that it will be the decisive matchup.
Time to watch the dust try to settle.



Supported by
On Tennis
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — It was 2011. Ivo Karlovic was already an ATP Tour veteran with graying temples, and his close friend and former coach Tarik Benhabiles was talking about Karlovic’s serve, and his future.
“He has a huge weapon,” Benhabiles told me. “He can play until he’s 40 years old, no problem.”
Kudos to Benhabiles, who once helped Andy Roddick become a force, for knowing his tennis. But, above all, kudos to Karlovic, the 6-foot-11 Croatian, for finding a way to fight and serve through everything life has thrown at him.
It has hardly been “no problem,” but Karlovic turned 40 on Feb. 28, and he is definitely still playing.
He has won three rounds at the BNP Paribas Open this year and is now the oldest man to win a singles match at a Masters 1000 event. On Wednesday, with plenty of gray in his beard now as well as in his temples, Karlovic will deploy his fearsome weapon against Dominic Thiem, the No. 7 seed, for a place in the quarterfinals.
At 25, Thiem is 15 years younger than Karlovic — but then just about everybody on tour is younger than Karlovic, including some of his former rivals who are now coaches.
“He’s older than me!” said Ivan Ljubicic, the 39-year-old co-coach of Roger Federer, who remains the most prominent graybeard in men’s tennis but is still Karlovic’s junior at 37.
Karlovic has remained a factor by overcoming a major Achilles’ tendon injury in 2010 andencephalitis in 2013, which caused debilitating headaches and left him temporarily without feeling in his right arm.
He has remained a force by focusing on fitness and dropping weight to take the pressure off his knees and other joints. He is down to 225 pounds, from 245 in 2011.
On court, Karlovic has learned to maximize his strengths and accept his weaknesses. He will never have a drive backhand, but his one-handed slice is crisp enough. And though his lateral mobility remains limited compared to his competitors, his forehand is huge andhis serve-and-volley styleis even more unusual and disorienting in this baseline-focused era.
In truth, his style is often serve-and-no-volley. He has slammed an ATP record 13,235 aces. Along the way, he has definitively proven, like it or not, that there is a place in a movement-based game for players of towering height like the 6-10 John Isner, the 33-year-old American star, and the 6-11Reilly Opelka, a 21-year-old from the U.S. who is hitting aces at a rapid clip of his own.
“If you look at any sport, everywhere there are taller guys, so I know that is the future in tennis,” Karlovic said, as he has said for years.
Ljubicic, who had a huge serve of his own and will turn 40 this month, grew up playing junior tournaments with Karlovic in Croatia and elsewhere. It was a time of war in the former Yugoslavia, and tennis was often the least of the youngsters’ concerns.
Fearing for their lives, Ljubicic’s family fled Bosnia and ended up briefly in a refugee camp in Croatia. Ljubicic eventually ended up honing his game in an Italian tennis club and reaching No. 3 in the world in 2006 before retiring in 2012.
Karlovic stayed in Zagreb, the Croatian capital. He was the son of well-educated professionals: his father a meteorologist; his mother an agronomist.
“In Zagreb, there were not a lot of airstrikes, but I spent a lot of time in the bomb shelters,” Karlovic said of his early teens. “It was always airstrike warnings.”
Funds were short, and so was quality coaching and court time. Karlovic had already decided he preferred tennis to basketball despite attempts to recruit him. He would wait until the evening when the tennis courts in Zagreb were empty and then use the balls he could find and hit serves on his own, sometimes after dark.
“It was the only way I could practice,” he said. “I would like people to know that my serve is not only that good because of my height. I worked on it a lot.”
He did not find a regular coach until his early 20s, and despite his imposing presence he managed to fly far below the radar until the first round of Wimbledon in 2003, where, as an all-but-unknown qualifier in an age before social media,he upset the defending champion Lleyton Hewittin four sets on Centre Court.
“It was not easy: I was looking around at all these huge courts I never had a chance to play on before,” Karlovic said. “I lost the first set 6-1, but after that I just kind of calmed down and started playing my game, and then after the match, it was not easy because everybody wanted to know, who am I?”
What made it harder was the pronounced stammer that Karlovic has had since boyhood, which made public speaking excruciating.
“I was just thinking to myself, this is what you have to do if you want to become a good player,” he said of post-match news conferences. “You’re going to have to do it.”
Nearly 16 years later, the stammer is much less pronounced, and Karlovic has become not only an excellent player but an enduring one. He peaked in the rankings at No. 14 in 2008 but was still in the top 20 last year before injuries contributed to him dropping to No. 138 in September.
Instead of calling it a career, Karlovic chose to head back to tennis’s minor leagues with the goal of making the main draw of the Australian Open. If he didn’t achieve that goal, he would retire. He played in a series of ATP Challenger events in the final months of 2018, winning one in Calgary.
Australia beckoned. But Karlovic, now based in Plantation, Fla., said one of the biggest challenges has been leaving his family behind. He and his wife, Alsi, have two children: a 7-year-old daughter, Jada, and an 18-month-old son, Noah.
“I had to leave on Christmas Day to get to a tournament in India,” he said. “So everybody was home. We had friends over, family, and then after lunch I was on the way to the airport. It was really difficult. My kids were crying and stuff, so it wasn’t easy, but on the other hand, I am doing this also because of them, you know? So they don’t have it as hard as I had it. So maybe that evens out the pain for me.”
He wanted Jada to have a memory of him as a professional tennis player.
“But now I also have a little one who is one-and-a-half years old,” said Karlovic, now ranked No. 89. “So I guess for him to remember me I’m going to have to play at least another eight more years.”
Presumably not even Benhabiles is ready to predict that.


Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — This year’s Miami Open is about 20 miles north of its previous home on Key Biscayne, but the tournament’s cultural epicenter is unmoved. It’s still somewhere thousands of miles to the south.
Because there is no tournament of its caliber in Mexico, the Caribbean, or Central and South America, the Miami Open has developed into the de facto Latin American Slam, drawing fans from the region and its diasporas, transforming this Florida fixture into a virtual homecoming for Latino players.
“It’s really nice to have the support,” said Leonardo Mayer, an Argentine. “It’s almost like playing in Buenos Aires.”
The top South American player, Juan Martín del Potro of Argentina, missed this year’s tournament because of a knee injury, but fans had to change only one letter in their customary cheer for him in order to root for his compatriot Federico Delbonis, who took a set off top-ranked Novak Djokovic on Sunday. Instead of “Olé, olé, olé, olé! Delpo, Delpo!” they chanted, “Delbo, Delbo!”
Even away from the court, the Miami area’s large Latino population affects the experience of playing in the tournament. Delbonis said he appreciated being able to buyyerba mateleaves in Miami to make his favorite beverage; for most events, he has to travel with his own supply.
“Every time I come here I feel like I want to be here, I want to live here,” he said. “When I got to the court today, I heard a lot of Argentinians speaking Spanish, cheering in Spanish, and you feel that energy they give you. They give you confidence, and you feel it inside. It’s good for your game to be more happy on court.”
Monica Puig, who in 2016 won Puerto Rico’s first Olympic gold medal, had vocal support from many Puerto Rican fans in her first-round match on Wednesday, when she lost to Wang Xiyu. She said regretted not being able to play more matches throughout the season in front of that crowd, which included her father.
“Having that Latin American feel here, just buzzing all over the place, it’s really special,” said Puig, the only Latin American woman ranked in the top 100 in singles.
Even fans from Latin American countries that are not represented among the players make their presence felt. After Fabio Fognini of Italy defeated Guido Andreozzi of Argentina on Friday, a woman unfurled a large Paraguayan flag.
Latin American reporters travel to the Miami Open in droves, with 24 representatives of Argentine news media leading this year’s international contingent, according to the tournament.
Though Latin American fans initially embraced the tournament organically, the event has begun marketing to them directly, including digital advertising in South America in both Spanish and Portuguese, as well as on Spanish-language websites in South Florida. (While Latin food and music can be found on the grounds, all the signs at the Miami Open are in English.)
Players from the United States have to adjust to this rare home tournament where the crowds may not tip in their favor. Pablo Cuevas of Uruguay recalled being stunned in 2011 when fans chanted his country’s name as he upsetAndy Roddick, the defending champion and American star, on the stadium court of Key Biscayne.
In one of the last matches played at the old venue in 2018, the American John Isner, the eventual champion, had little support when he met del Potro in the semifinals.
“The fans were great, but it was not 50-50,” Isner said, smiling. “There were a lot of Argentinian flags, that country loves their sport, loves their soccer and their tennis. To see all the flags in the crowd, it was a very, very cool atmosphere.”
Many other non-Latin American players similarly relish the passionate crowds.
“I’ve always played the best in countries and in places where I felt that energy,” Alexander Zverev of Germany said. “In Rome I always felt great. Italians are very energetic, powerful people. Madrid, Mexico, Miami: It’s always those kind of places I’ve played well in. For me, I enjoy when the crowd is loud, energetic, and it’s nice when this happens.”
Dominic Thiem of Austria has won four of his 12 career titles in Latin America — two in Argentina and one each in Mexico and Brazil.
“The energy in these countries and from these people is nice,” Thiem said. “It feels like they are always in a good mood. They are happy to live, I feel. It’s sometimes different in Europe — maybe it’s the weather, I don’t know.”
James Blake, a former player from the United States who is now the tournament director of the Miami Open, said he had savored his two matches against Thomaz Bellucci of Brazil at the tournament, where American supporters could not match the Brazilians’ boisterousness.
“Those are a lot of fun, because you’re on the edge of your seat,” Blake said. “Every big point, every shot, is exacerbated by the fact that the crowd’s going crazy, and you’re angry at yourself because their crowd is going crazy.”
Players are not always comfortable with the din.
“There are some players who don’t love it,” Blake said, “and they’ve voiced that to me, plenty.”
After she lost to Puig last year, Caroline Wozniacki of Denmarkthreatened to boycott the tournament,saying her supporters felt threatened by people in the profusely pro-Puig crowd.
Wozniacki did return this year and said she had not discussed the incident with tournament organizers since. Last week she focused on the positives of the partisanship — like hearing the chants for Delbonis as she played on a nearby court, and being able to quell the noise.
“I could hear it was like a soccer-like atmosphere,” Wozniacki said. “It’s cool. It’s obviously more fun when they cheer for you. At the same time it’s also fun to quiet the fans. It’s fun when all of a sudden it goes dead quiet.”
Jérémy Chardy enjoyed silencing the cacophony of Chileans who were raucously supporting his opponent, Nicolàs Jarry, in their first-round match. After he won, he blew kisses toward the Chilean contingent.
“You always know when you play a South American here it will be difficult,” Chardy said. “The crowd was difficult all the match, and I didn’t say a word. Just at the end when I won, I wanted to send them kisses, and they replied with some fingers.”
Chardy said he appreciated the animated crowd, despite the animus.
“Even if it was not always respectful,” he said, “I prefer when there’s atmosphere to no atmosphere.”

Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
PERTH, Australia — Amélie Mauresmo won her two Grand Slam singles titles in 2006 and retired three years later. She had no idea that Roger Federer, the man who won Grand Slam singles titles on those same weekends as her in 2006, would still be on top of his sport more than a decade later.
“I don’t know how he does it,” Mauresmo said. “What it puts on your body is huge. The training, the matches, the travel, the jet lag, anything.”
Mauresmo and Federer won the Australian Open and Wimbledon singles titles in 2006. Two years older than Federer, Mauresmo, 39, retired from the sport in 2009, at 30, and is at the Australian Open as coach of the French player Lucas Pouille.
Federer is at the Australian Open as the two-time defending champion. His bid for a 21st Grand Slam singles championship begins Monday in Melbourne.
“Winning back-to-back Australian Opens like this, in my mid-30s, it’s one of my favorite things I will look back on in my career,” he said. “I didn’t think it was going to happen, and I had such a great time here in Australia the last couple of years and always enjoyed playing here.”
Federer acknowledges his age readily, quipping at the Hopman Cup recently that his 20-year-old opponent, Stefanos Tsitsipas, “could be my son.” And he marvels at his own ability to run up the score in the record books — 99 titles and counting — at an age when many would count him out.
But after an auspicious start to last season, when he won his first 17 matches, Federer seemed to trail off. After winning the title in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, in February and briefly reclaiming the No. 1 ranking, Federer went without another tournament championship until October. After skipping the clay-court season for the second year in a row, he lost in the quarterfinals at Wimbledon after holding a match point against Kevin Anderson, andin the fourth roundof the United States Open to John Millman.
Federer played down the doomsday talk that accompanied his stagnation in the second half of the year.
“I wasn’t too disappointed,” he said. “I was more surprised to hear that there was sort of concern, or people were saying, ‘What a bad second half to the year.’ ”
Federer conceded disappointing finishes at the Grand Slam events but thought he otherwise played well, including a loss in a third-set tiebreaker to Novak Djokovic in the semifinals of the Paris Masters in November.
He said what he needed to do better this year “is really play well when it really comes down to the crunch.”
Federer said he trusted his own evaluations of his play as well as input from his coaches, Ivan Ljubicic and Severin Lüthi.
“I can analyze — with my age, very well — my own matches and my own feelings,” he said. “I have two great coaches, two of the best in the game, who give me their fair assessment, and I have a fitness coach who tells me if I’m moving good or not. They’re all open and honest towards me. I don’t want any sugarcoating; I want it real, and straight. That’s it. I know, always, where I’m at.
“It’s very clear in my team where I stand. And from that standpoint, I’m happy where I am right now. I’m in a great position.”
Mauresmo longs to learn more about what Federer does in his off-seasons.
“I hope one day he will explain to everyone everything,” she said. “The little details, everything that he’s put together to be able to play this well at his age, to move this well.”
Federer is not exactly clandestine about his routines. He prefers, for example, to do his off-season movement drills on a tennis court, rather than indoors as many players do, to better simulate the footing and friction of match conditions.
“I do a bit of weights, too,” he said, grinning and gesturing toward his lithe frame. “I know we don’t see it, but I do.”
Federer started his season auspiciously, winning all eight sets he played at the Hopman Cup last week, never dropping serve in any of the matches.
But he considers the top-ranked Djokovic the clear favorite at the Australian Open. Djokovic, a six-time champion in Melbourne, has won the last two Grand Slam tournaments.
“We know who the usual are,” said Federer, who is seeded third, “and I’m part of that bunch.”
The longevity of that oligarchy, which also includes Rafael Nadal, has blocked several younger players from breaking through on tennis’s biggest stages. No player currently younger than 30 has won even a set in a Grand Slam final.
“We’re all tired of you guys already, but what can we do?” fourth-ranked Alexander Zverev, 21, said during the trophy ceremony of the Hopman Cup on Saturday, when he lost to Federer in singles and mixed doubles.
“Especially you,” he added, turning around and looking at Federer, who laughed. “I mean, you’re 30-whatever! Why? Just, why? Let us have one.”


Supported by
A flash spotted on livestreams was likely caused by the crash of a tiny, fast-moving meteoroid left behind by a comet.
ByRobin George Andrews
On Sunday and Monday, those in the Western Hemisphere with clear skies were fortunate enough to see thelast total lunar eclipse of the decade. As the moon took on a distinctly redder shade just before midnight Eastern Time, livestreams of the phenomenon showed aflash of lightsuddenly and briefly emanating from the lunar surface.
Anthony Cook, an astronomical observer at Los Angeles’ Griffith Observatory which streamed the eclipse, thought it could have just been the camera’s random electronic noise. Then astronomers and citizen scientists started tosharetheir detection of the flash onRedditandTwitter.
The only explanation was that something slammed into the lunar surface and obliterated itself.
[Sign up to get reminders for space and astronomy events on your calendar.]
The moon is a multi-billion-year-oldlibrary of impact events, with fresh collisions still taking place frequently today. Capturing a lunar impact on video israre enough, but this event — a collision during a total lunar eclipse — may be a first.
“I have not heard of anyone seeing an impact like this during a lunar eclipse before,” saidSara Russell, a professor of planetary sciences at the Natural History Museum in London.
Dr. Russell said that flashes can only be seen from Earth when the lunar surface is in shadow, which is normally just a few days before and after the new moon. A luminous full moon is anathema to such detections, but a total lunar eclipse, painting our pale celestial companion in darkness, changed that.
Justin Cowart, a graduate student in geosciences at Stony Brook University in New York who spotted the flash, managed tonarrow downthe impact location. Using images from an amateur astronomer,Christian Fröschlin,Mr. Cowart determined thatthe flash took place somewhere in the lunar highlands, south of Byrgius crater.
NASA’s Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, which studies the moon’s surface, may soon spot the fresh crater. But the impact flash itself can be used to roughly estimate the size of the object that crashed on the moon, and its momentum. Based on NASA and European Space Agency databases of impact flashes, Mr. Cowart guesses that “it was probably somewhere between the size of an acorn and tennis ball.”
Detection data from theMoon Impacts Detection and Analysis System, or MIDAS, found that the space rock was a pipsqueak of ameteoroid, only weighing something like 22 pounds, and measuring no more than 12 inches across.
The provenance of the meteoroid remains an open question. According toJose Maria Madiedo, an astrophysicist at the University of Huelva in Spain who is a co-director of the MIDAS system, most objects that hit Earth come from comets and not asteroids, and the same applies to the moon
With that in mind, he said, “the most likely situation is that the impactor was a rock from a comet.”
Considering its tiny dimensions, it must have been moving at an incredible speed to create a flash of light visible from Earth. Indeed, Dr. Madiedo said that the impact velocity would be in the range of 38,000 miles per hour. That is just over twice the speed that NASA’sold space shuttlehad to move after launch to achieve orbit of Earth.
A total lunar eclipse is always something to marvel at, but one being gate-crashed by a hypersonic cometary shard is something else entirely.
An earlier version of this article, using information from an astronomer, misstated where on the moon a flash of light was seen. It was south of the Byrgius crater, not west of Legendre crater.
Supported by
On Tennis
ByChristopher Clarey
Andy Murray is not the youngest of the tennis supergroup known as the Big Four. Novak Djokovic was born a week later than Murray was.
But it is still quite an unpleasant surprise to realize that Murray, 31, very likely will be the first of the remarkable quartet to retire.
Roger Federer is somehow still gliding at 37. Rafael Nadal is somehow still persevering at 32.
But Murray has been in too much pain for too long with no relief in view, and on Friday in Melbourne, Australia, all of those who have followed his career from up close or a great distance could share some of his pain, too.
It was not what he said. It was what he couldn’t say.
Murray, like all tennis stars of his stature, has spent as much time in news conferences as most of us have spent at the coffee shop. They are an artificial construct that has become a natural habitat for Murray, a droll, strong-minded Scotsman with the voice that sounds like a low-flying drone — a voice he once called “my least favorite thing about me.”
But as he sat down behind the table on Friday, his cap pulled low and his lips pursed, reporters placed digital recorders on the table in front him to capture the words. There was soon nothing to capture.
Asked how he and his ailing hip were feeling, he answered, “Yeah, not, not great.”
He then sighed, averted his glance, dropped his chin, touched the bill of his cap and his face, fought for composure and was unable to utter another word for nearly a minute before finally grabbing his credential off the desk and leaving the room.
Though he soon returned, nothing he explained then was nearly as eloquent as those 45 seconds of silence.
What mattered most was all in there: the sensitivity, the humanity, the competitive fire reduced to anguish at not being able to solve his hip problem despite all the medical expertise, financial resources and iron will at his disposal.
Murray plans to play on, hopefully until Wimbledon this summer, although there are no guarantees. He acknowledged that this Australian Open, which begins Monday, could be the finish line, and surely the poignancy of making such an announcement in Melbourne was not lost on him.
[Update:Andy Murray loses in his first-round match at the Australian Open.]
Sir Andrew Barron Murray has had many triumphs in his 31 years: back-to-back Olympic gold medals and three Grand Slam titles, none more resonant than hiswinning Wimbledon in 2013to end a 77-year drought for British men in singles. Many other worthies, including Bunny Austin and Tim Henman, had embarked on the same quest and faltered.
But Australia is where Murray has had to face his own tennis limitations.
He broke down in tears during the awards ceremony afterlosing the final to Federer in 2010, but though he has, in his own words, “kept it together” since then in Melbourne, 2010 was only the beginning of the disappointment. He lost the final again in 2011, 2013, 2015 and 2016.
No other man has gone 0-5 in singles finals at the same major tournament, and he shares the blame with Djokovic, his one-time doubles partner, who has beaten Murray in the last four of those finals.
So close in age and skill sets, they first played as 13-year-olds at Les Petits As junior tournament in France. Murray won in a hurry, but they have played 36 times as professionals, more than enough to make it clear that Djokovic is the greater player.
He leads their series by 25-11 and has 14 Grand Slam singles titles (and counting). For many, the Big Four has become the Big Three. And doesn’t Stan Wawrinka have — like Murray — three major titles of his own?
Such arguments have merit: Federer and Nadal also have winning records against Murray, and there is no doubt now that in the final analysis of this golden tennis era, Federer, Nadal and Djokovic will be the central figures and the statistical leaders.
But Murray earned his place in tennis’s great modern foursome, with his week-to-week consistency, his resilience, his all-surface brilliance and his ability to excel at Wimbledon with the equivalent of the Centre Court roof on his shoulders.
“Never motivated by money, only by his rivals; he didn’t need people’s respect, but he earned it,” Mark Petchey, Murray’s former coach, said in the wake of Murray’s announcement.
Murray might not have been here at all. He and his older brother, Jamie, were young students at Dunblane Primary School in their Scottish town in 1996 when a local resident entered the grounds and murdered 16 of their schoolmates and a teacher before shooting himself.
The Murray brothers survived, though not without invisible scars, and they both grew up to become No. 1 in the world: Andy in singles, Jamie in doubles.
That is a tribute to their childhood sibling rivalry, their talent and their work ethic, and also to their formidable tennis mother, Judy, a former Scottish professional player who has been a driving force with her intuition, her ambition, her sharp wit and her informed passion for the game.
Jamie, 32 and still in the top 10 in doubles, plans to play beyond 2019. Andy, at this stage, does not.
“He was a kaleidoscope of talent, of emotion, of movement, spirit and authenticity,” said Petchey, a former British player who introduced Murray to Kim Sears, who would become Murray’s wife. “He was a winner, but he became a champion. A champion not just on the court but a champion of causes off it. He leaves as he arrived. Tennis never changed him, but he changed tennis.”
Murray, in part (but only in part) because of his mother’s impact on his career, has been the rare men’s No. 1 to speak out frequently in support of gender equality andwomen’s tennis, whose results he actually seems to follow. He has also walked the walk, hiring a woman as a coach: Amélie Mauresmo.
That has endeared him to a wider audience and only underscored the gulf between on-court Murray and off-court Murray. Under pressure and between the lines, he has often been far from endearing: barking at his entourage, using language better suited to the Glasgow docks, and muttering, muttering, muttering as he chased perfection in a sport that refused to cooperate.
Watching him at work, it all has often seemed more a burden than a pleasure. His service motion resembles heavy lifting, and long before his hip problems became career threatening, his walk between points looked closer to a hobble.
But that was before he sensed an opportunity and sprang into action: a short ball he could pounce on for a winner, a wide ball he could chase down that hardly anyone else in the game could have reached.
Murray in his prime was above all a supreme athlete, possessed of quickness, coordination, feathery touch and selective striking power.
As recently as 2016, he had his finest season, winning nine titles and reaching No. 1 for the first time. It still seems premature to believe that he is just about done. After all, retirement in tennis has long been a euphemism for a sabbatical, and one of Murray’s peers who has dealt with pain offered words of encouragement on Friday.
“Please don’t stop trying,” Juan Martín del Potrowrote on Twitter. “Keep fighting. I can imagine your pain and sadness. I hope you can overcome this. You deserve to retire on your own terms, whenever that happens.”
Del Potro speaks from experience; multiple wrist operations nearly snuffed out his career. His is a voice to be heeded. But unfortunately so is Murray’s, especially when the emotions are so powerful that the words just won’t come.
Want more Australia coverage? Sign up for the weeklyAustralia Letter, start your day with your localMorning Briefingand join us in ourFacebook group.


Supported by
Burned out, struggling with depression and fed up with cyberbullying, Rebecca Marino, one of Canada’s brightest prospects, quit tennis in 2013. A year into her comeback, she’s climbing the rankings.
ByBen Rothenberg
MELBOURNE, Australia — For the first point she played at a Grand Slam event in six years, Rebecca Marino hit an ace.
She celebrated with a subtle fist pump, determined to have the best next act she could after a lengthy intermission during which she became the face of depression among athletes.
“It’s easy to get caught up in the moment, just going from tournament to tournament now,” Marino said. “But if I stop and think about it, then that’s when I see that it’s pretty cool that I was able to do this, and to get this far, from no ranking to suddenly in the qualies of a Slam.”
Marino lost, 6-2, 6-2, to Caroline Dolehide on Tuesday in the first round of Australian Open qualifying, limited by a back injury, which curtailed her off-season training. Despite her stiffness, Marino, 28, showed flashes of the power and clean ball-striking that sent her into the upper echelons of tennis seven years ago.
With a percussive forehand and a booming serve that topped out at 120 miles per hour, Marino surged to a high of 38th in the rankings in the summer of 2011, when she was 20. Not a highly touted junior prospect, she had planned to enroll in college before her tennis successes mounted, catapulting her faster and further than she was prepared to handle.
“Not expecting it, I felt like I was thrown into this machine, and I didn’t understand how it worked,” she said.
Marino stepped back from the sport for the first time in 2012, taking seven months off. After returning for several months, she retired in February 2013 at age 22.
In a conference call announcing her decision, Marinorevealed her struggles with depression; days earlier, she had discussed her social media abuse inan interview with The New York Times. Her leaving the sport was often attributed to one of those factors, or both of them, which Marino said was inaccurate in retrospect.
“When I look back, I wouldn’t necessarily say it was depression,” she said of her decision to stop playing. “It was burnout, and it was expectations put on my shoulders by myself and others, and I just wasn’t able to cope. It kind of all came to a head in a big, giant burnout, I guess.”
Though her absence was longer than most, Marino is not the only player to have stepped away from the sport because of burnout. Most notably, the top Australian Ash Barty took off nearly two years early in her career. Barty has become a top player in her return, and she defeated No. 1 Simona Halep in Sydney this week.
For Marino, stepping away from tennis made her “able to become superhappy and enjoy my life,” she said.
Marino’s retirement at 22 generated considerable attention, particularly in her native Canada, where she was one of the brightest tennis prospects in generations.
Her story resonated with others, but she felt uneasy being a touchstone for athletes struggling with depression.
“It wasn’t something I was prepared for, and it’s still something I’m kind of grappling with,” Marino said. “I’m still a really private person, and so for people to come up to me and tell me all of the things they’ve dealt with, or how I’ve affected them, it’s difficult sometimes, because I don’t really know what to say. Even though I’m happy that I’ve helped people, it can be overwhelming because I’m not professionally trained to help people.”
After retiring from tennis, Marino worked one summer for her family’s construction business, pouring cement and digging through clay. She later began teaching tennis lessons and enrolled at the University of British Columbia, where she studied English literature. The works she enjoyed most, she said, were ones from the Victorian era that grappled with the effects of industrialization on society.
In her second year, the university’s rowing coach recruited her to join the team, knowing her athletic background and her family’s extensive history in the sport. (Her uncle George Hungerford was an Olympic gold medalist in 1964.) Rowing improved Marino’s fitness and helped expand her sense of identity.
“To have a competitive outlet through a team like that was superfun,” she said. “It made me feel like I was a part of the university community. People didn’t look at me for my tennis anymore; they just looked at me as a student-athlete.”
Marino was shaken in February 2017 when her father, Joe, received a prostate cancer diagnosis.
“After he finished chemo, I kind of took a step back and wanted to look at what was important in my life,” she said. “I didn’t want to live with any regrets, and I thought that tennis was the one thing in my life that I kind of wish I had a do-over for.”
She also wanted her father to see her play again. Marino weighed the idea of a return for months and gained confidence after serving as a hitting partner at a tournament in Vancouver, her hometown, in August 2017.
A week before her next semester was to begin, Marino pulled out of her classes, quit her coaching job and moved to Montreal to begin working toward a full-fledged comeback at Tennis Canada’s training center.
After a false start because shedid not re-enter tennis’s antidoping programin time, Marino returned to the sport at its lowest rung last January, at a series of small tournaments in Turkey. She won her first 19 matches, including her first 30 sets. She worked throughout the year to bring her ranking to its current spot of 216th, which was enough to reach her goal of entering the Australian Open qualifying draw.
Marino plans a long stay in the sport this time, and is working to ensure it is more pleasant and sustainable. She stays in better contact with friends, including more trips home to Vancouver, to help her keep one foot outside the sometimes suffocating tennis bubble.
“My friends don’t play tennis, so they don’t care if I win or lose,” she said. “They’re just concerned about how I’m doing as a person, if I’m enjoying myself, and when I’ll be back so we can hang out. My whole structure this time around is a little bit different, and I have a lot of things outside of tennis that keep me grounded.”
She added: “Previously, I felt like my identity was just ‘tennis player.’ But now I have many things that form my identity, and I feel like I’m very whole and very balanced.”
Marino hopes her triumphs off and on the court gain the same amount of attention as her rough times did. She wants people to see her as a real person instead of a headline.
“I have no doubts in my mind that I’m able to compete and be here,” Marino said. “I’m not going to ever go back to that place again because I know who I am now, and I know what I need to do.”
Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — Belinda Bencic is making a tricky game look easy at the moment, redirecting her big-swinging opponents’ best shots into the corners, conjuring defensive lobs and flicking reflex returns from inside the baseline.
“I’m trying not to think who is on the other side of the court,” she said.
But there is no ignoring the quality of her recent tennis victims. From Dubai to Indian Wells, Bencic has been taking on the best in the women’s game and emerging again and again with a broad smile on her face.
On Thursday, she ran her winning streak to 12 matches by defeating her sixth top-10 opponent in less than a month. On Tuesday she had routed Naomi Osaka, the new world No. 1, in little more than an hour at the BNP Paribas Open, but in Thursday’s quarterfinal, Bencic met with a great deal more resistance from No. 5 seed Karolina Pliskova before prevailing, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3, in 2 hours 16 minutes.
It was a match of fluctuating quality but no shortage of bravura shotmaking in the breeze, Pliskova’s flat power against Bencic’s fast-twitch counterpunching.
“I think Belinda’s the best in the world at redirecting power, I really do,” said Mary Joe Fernandez, the ESPN analyst and a former champion at Indian Wells.
That is quite a statement, considering that women’s tennis is full of talented counterpunchers, including the reigning French Open champion, Simona Halep, and the reigning Wimbledon champion, Angelique Kerber, who will face Bencic in the semifinals after defeating Venus Williams, 7-6 (3), 6-3, on Thursday.
But Bencic, a Swiss extrovert who turned 22 on Sunday and is returning to the fore after injury, has long been considered one of the game’s most sparkling talents. She was taught to see the game in full by her father, Ivan, and also by Melanie Molitor, the mother and coach of Martina Hingis, the Swiss wunderkind who rose to No. 1 by treating a tennis court like a chessboard.
Switzerland’s tennis star-in-chief, Roger Federer, has played a supportive role in Bencic’s career of late, partnering with her in the Hopman Cup team event and sending encouraging messages.
“She’s worked a lot for this moment, and the big reward is coming now,” Federer said. “I got to know her at the Hopman Cup and tried to give her as much advice as I could. She’s got a different game and is in a different stage of her career. Hopefully I helped. But the credit is hers and her team’s.”
When Ivan Bencic first became interested in having his daughter play the game, Federer had not yet broken through to the elite level. Hingis was the Swiss player he watched and admired, and their families had more in common than an attraction to tennis. Molitor and Hingis had immigrated to Switzerland from the Slovakian side of the former Czechoslovakia. So had Ivan Bencic, whose family fled the country in 1968 after the Soviet invasion.
Ivan Bencic telephoned Molitor when Belinda was 5 years old and asked her to take a look at his daughter’s nascent game. Molitor was impressed enough to offer to help from time to time. It became a much more profound connection after Molitor started her own academy, and Hingis later added her own counsel to the mix.
Though Bencic has more natural power and a more potent serve than her mentor did in her prime, she shares the ability to read tennis tea leaves even in the midst of a fast-paced rally.
“She was helping me a lot,” Bencic said of Hingis, who retired in October 2017 as the world’s No. 1 doubles player.
At that stage, Bencic was still coming back from an operation on her left wrist. Though she is right handed, the pain had kept her from hitting her two-handed backhand effectively.
She had appeared to be on a fast train to the top after defeating Caroline Wozniacki, Ana Ivanovic, Serena Williams and Halep in 2015 at age 18, on her way to the Rogers Cup title in Toronto and to later reaching the top 10.
But her wrist injury changed that career arc, causing her to miss five months in 2017 and fall outside the top 300. She returned at low-level professional tournaments in Europe rather than use a protected ranking and return at the highest level.
Less than two years later, that looks like the right move. There have been some stumbles, but she has found her footing and is guaranteed to re-enter the top 20 on Monday.
“I played those small events and built my confidence back up with my ranking,” she said of 2017. “Because with the wrist, you never know if it’s going to be good or going to hold. You hear so many stories of someone needing a second wrist surgery and then another one, and it wasn’t great. So definitely the first tournaments, it’s always a test to see if you can keep up. I didn’t want to play a big tournament with all the people right away and have the comeback in the public eye. I definitely needed matches and confidence.”
She is getting both in large quantities now. She beat four top-10 players on her way to the title in Dubai last month: Aryna Sabalenka, Halep, Elina Svitolina and Petra Kvitova. She has now beaten Osaka and Pliskova in Indian Wells and, based on level of play, can be considered the favorite for the title.
This is a fascinating, power-shifting phase in women’s tennis. Osaka, 21, has been the player of the moment for the last six months, winning the singles titles at the2018 United States Openand this year’s Australian Open.
But fresh threats to the new and fragile order continue to surface. Bianca Andreescu, an 18-year-old Canadian wild card, has reached the semifinals here and has a 25-3 record in tour-level matches this year.
Bencic is not emerging, of course. She is re-emerging, and though it could not have been easy to see players near her age — such as Osaka andJelena Ostapenko, the surprise 2017 French Open champion— claim the biggest trophies, Bencic said that envy was not a driving force.
“It’s great that we have so many great players in our age group,” she said. “But it’s not like I’m thinking, ‘Ah, I’m much better than her, and she’s winning Grand Slams, and I’m not.’ I definitely don’t have this mind-set, because I feel like that person who wins a Grand Slam definitely deserves it. They must be doing something right. It’s only inspiring for me.”
To get her game right this year, Bencic decided to have her father return as her full-time coach for the first time since 2016.
“It’s definitely not a coincidence I’m playing the way I’m playing now,” she said.
She wanted her freedom in 2016, but believes that they are both on the same wavelength now. And when she was getting edgy against Halep in Dubai, she called her father onto the court for a coaching visit, and he told her to take a moment, look around and appreciate how far she had come.
Her fitness has also improved significantly, something she attributes to maturity and to her Slovakian fitness coach, Martin Hromkovic, a former soccer player who is also her boyfriend.
“For me, it works right now very well,” she said. “When we are doing the work, Martin is my coach, and I’m respecting that. But as well I am feeling the support so much, like he’s doing everything he can for me and sacrificing really a lot. So I’m super happy to have him by my side.”


Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
Another season of Grand Slam tennis begins at the Australian Open on Monday, but Agnieszka Radwanska, who retired in November, won’t be part of it.
Aptly called “The Ninja” for her ability to inflict out-of-nowhere pain on the opposition from all manner of contortionist positions, Radwanska’s spectacular, poker-faced shotmaking will be missed.
But even without its Ninja, the women’s game is in a memorable phase when it comes to entertainment value and players with an uncommon touch.
At the moment and probably not for long, the tour is a clash of generations with Serena Williams, 37, and Venus Williams, 38, still in the mix along with midcareer champions like Angelique Kerber, 30, and Caroline Wozniacki, 28, and the new wave led by Naomi Osaka, 21, the Japanese sensation who upset Serena Williams to win the United States Open last year. It is rare to see such a range of players clashing with the outcomes so uncertain.
The tour has geographical breadth with players from the United States, Europe, Asia and Australia all in the top 20 and with Ons Jabeur, 24, of Tunisia in the top 60 after last year, becoming the first Arab woman to reach a WTA final.
But there is another strong and too often undervalued selling point: stylistic variety. Though serious baseline power remains the most popular and fail-safe route to stardom, players with subtler, more creative games are also finding a way to win consistently, just as Radwanska, a former world No. 2 and Wimbledon finalist, did before her injuries.
Several of these tennis “artists” will be seeded at the Australian Open: No. 10 Daria Kasatkina of Russia, No. 13 Anastasija Sevastova of Latvia, No. 15 Ashleigh Barty of Australia, and No. 28 Hsieh Su-wei of Taiwan, a 33-year-old whose double-handed, frequently off-speed strokes are as crafty as they come. There is also Jabeur, still an outsider but whose game is a crowd-pleasing mix of baseline punch, feathery touch and Federer-esque flourishes.
“There will always be exceptions to the power players,” said Paul McNamee, the former Australian men’s star who advises Hsieh. “The players you refer to, however, all have one thing in common: exceptional hands. They have amazing touch, and this is why they can survive even if they have less raw power.”
That hardly means they have none. Barty, despite being 5-foot-5 and shorter than most of her rivals, generates the leg drive and racket-head speed to hit big serves and forehands. Her crisply sliced backhand has unusual bite, and she has perhaps the best net game in the sport.
“The plan to get to the net more often is a focus for 2019,” said Craig Tyzzer, her coach. “Ash certainly benefits from playing more doubles than most of the other singles girls, but her volley skills were certainly developed from an early age, which is a massive advantage.”
Kasatkina has a heavy topspin forehand that she can flatten out to create more pace when she requires it.
But what distinguishes the members of the WTA’s creative class from their peers is the size of their tool set and the range of their tactical options. Their success has meant more matchups that feature contrasting styles: important to the appeal of a game where patterns have a tendency to repeat.
“Tennis is a game of chess, of tactics,” said Philippe Dehaes, Kasatkina’s coach, who has emerged as one of the tour’s leading mentors and motivators. “You have to vary zones and trajectories and find the answer suited to what your opponent is doing. To have women who play well tactically and who can keep the ball in play, while varying and creating, makes the show much more interesting for people, in my opinion.”
It is not the contrast that tennis once regularly offered. When Martina Navratilova was attacking the net in the 1970s and 1980s against her baseline-hugging archrival Chris Evert and others, the gulf between styles and tennis philosophies was much wider.
“When you had serve-and-volleyers going against baseliners, that was more of a complete and obvious contrast,” said Tracy Austin, the precocious champion who faced Navratilova frequently. “But in this day and age where the game has become homogenized, we’re looking for any contrast. It’s not as extreme as it used to be, but that’s why Hsieh Su-wei is fun to watch, because you feel like you can see the wheels turning in her mind as to where to place the ball, the geometry of the court. So many players use left and right, and she uses north and south as well.”
Hsieh is constantly changing depth: shifting her target from the backcourt to the forecourt as she mixes in drop shots, angled volleys and sliced and flat groundstrokes.
“Her hands can redirect a shot in either direction on both wings with pinpoint accuracy,” McNamee said. “That’s not normal.”
But outlier fast-twitch defensive skills are required to thrive in an era of abundant power and athleticism, of taller, stronger opposition with superior leverage like Petra Kvitova, Garbine Muguruza, Karolina Pliskova, Madison Keys and the ascendant Aryna Sabalenka.
“I try to do something else than the normal,” said Sevastova, a U.S. Open semifinalist last year whose trademark is the drop shot. “I think it’s important, and it’s my style. It’s not like I don’t have power. I just don’t have that much. But I can handle their pace and hit the ball quickly, and I like variety.”
Dehaes sees more women being able to survive the onslaught.
“I think that has always been the case, but in the last few years we saw it a bit less,” he said. “I think the equipment played a big role, and there was the evolution of women’s tennis with players becoming stronger physically and better technically. Because everyone trains a lot and everyone trains well, which was not always the case in former times. So with more athletic players and more high-performance equipment, the pace of the game accelerated. But I think now the girls are getting used to it and are more able to counter the games of these super-powerful players.”
Tennis’s recent honor roll confirms that. Three of the four Grand Slam singles titles last year went to counterpunchers: the No. 1 player, Simona Halep, and Kerber and Wozniacki, all of whom have long had speed and defensive skills, but who also have focused on improving their serves and learning to embrace risk selectively.
“Honestly, it could be just 15 percent more aggression that can make the difference,” Austin said. “You are just robbing your opponent of a little bit of time on certain shots.”
Martin Blackman, general manager of player development at the United States Tennis Association, says he believes that “we will see more and more complete players on the women’s side.”
Purer power players are also trying to broaden their range. In her late teens, Osaka clearly had potent groundstrokes and a penetrating serve. But she did not make the leap to Grand Slam champion until she lost weight in 2018 and improved her explosive movement, agility and defensive skills with help from her new coach, Sascha Bajin, and her fitness coach, Abdul Sillah.
“She’s pulled back some; Sascha’s got her thinking more on the court rather than just see ball, hit ball,” Austin said. “Now, she’s fit enough and aware enough and realizes, ‘O.K., this is a red-light ball. I have to get the point back to neutral.’ Or ‘this is a green-light ball, and I can go big.’”
The artists are also at work on finding the time to use their brushes.
“My challenge with Dasha,” said Dehaes, using Kasatkina’s nickname, “is to help her find a way to stay in the rally even under great pressure, and at a certain moment, the right moment, make the difference with a variation. But it’s not easy to vary when you play someone like Sabalenka, who hits every ball very hard from everywhere without much theory. It’s very hard to counter this kind of woman.”
Perhaps impossible when a true power player is on target.
“If you have Serena and she’s at the top of her game, I still say that power is always going to win,” Austin said. “I don’t know if Sabalenka is 10 to 15 percent away from that top level or maybe just two weeks away, but when she’s all cylinders firing, I still think she’s going to take out the Kasatkinas, the Sevastovas, the Bartys. But let me tell you. If you’re off a little bit and your timing is messed up a little bit by those combinations — topspin, slice, short, deep — it’s a whole new ballgame.”
Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — After another day of big serves and topspin forehands in the desert sunshine, just about everyone appeared to get what they wanted: a 39th match between Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal.
The question is, will it actually happen?
Federer, despite being the elder at 37, looks readier to rumble. Between Dubai and Indian Wells, he has won nine straight matches and 15 straight sets and artfully and uneventfully dispatched the unseeded Hubert Hurkacz, 6-4, 6-4, in Friday’s first quarterfinal of the BNP Paribas Open.
But Nadal had to dig much deeper to wriggle free of the firm grip and aggressive game of Karen Khachanov, the brawny young Russian who pushed him hard in the third round of last year’s United States Open.
This time, Nadal prevailed, 7-6 (2), 7-6 (2), but only after Khachanov stretched him repeatedly with huge serves and whipping forehands and only after Nadal needed on-court treatment and tape for pain in his long-troublesome right knee.
And there lies the problem with planning your day or, depending on the time zone, your night around watching No. 39.
Nadal remains one of the greatest, in-the-moment competitors in any sport, but his recent record in hardcourt tournaments is a downbeat litany of withdrawals, retirements and anticlimaxes.
It remains an open question if he will feel hearty enough to play Saturday afternoon’s semifinal. He does not have a day off to recover. He also has the rest of the 2019 season to consider, including his sacrosanct season within a season on clay that is scheduled to start next month in Monte Carlo.
“Of course my goal and my idea is to be ready for tomorrow,” Nadal said after pursing his lips and shaking his head.
But he also knows from long experience with patellar tendinitis that being ready is no sure thing.
“I cannot guarantee how I will feel when I wake up tomorrow,” he said. “But the desire to play a match like this against Federer is always very special, and it’s even more special if we’re both at a high level and at 100 percent. Hopefully it will be that way, above all for me but also for the fans on site and for fans in general. I hope I will be able to play aggressively. I need to be ready to react very quickly and to have everything in place to be able to succeed. If not, it will be very difficult.”
Nadal and Federer first played in Miami in 2004, but they have not met since October 2017, when Federer beat Nadal in the final of the Shanghai Masters. Federer went 5-0 against Nadal in 2017, a resurgent season for both men, after upgrading his ability to attack with his single-handed backhand.
That run of success has narrowed the big edge that Nadal once held in their rivalry; he now leads by 23-15.
“I don’t think those five matches matter that much, to be honest,” Federer said of the 2017 victories. “A lot of time has gone by, unfortunately maybe for the rivalry for us, or for me. It’s always better to keep on maybe playing against him.”
Federer started this season by failing to retain his title at the Australian Open but has responded by going on a roll. After winning his 100th career title in Dubai, Federer is now two victories from his 101st. To get there, he may first have to deal with the man who has been his friendly rival for 15 years and who remains a friend: The two had coffee at Federer’s rented home last week to discuss the state of the tennis world.
“Different styles, different ways to understand the sport,” Nadal said. “And at the same time, two players with a good relationship after all the things that we went through in our careers, competing for the most important things.”
In his first match against Hurkacz, a rangy and powerful 22-year-old from Poland, Federer looked loose from the start as he tested the full range of his skill set.
There was the usual: wickedly sliced backhands, blocked returns and first serve-forehand combination punches. There was also the unusual: chip and charge tactics, serve-and-volley on second serve and no-look flicked backhand overheads.
But it will be hard to be quite so relaxed and experimental against Nadal, whose ability (when healthy) to extend rallies and take command of them with his left-handed, topspin forehand is an entirely different, though much more familiar, challenge.
The two did not play any of the same regular ATP Tour events in 2018, and they did not face off in the three Grand Slam tournaments that they both played: the Australian Open, Wimbledon and the United States Open.
Federer was asked if, after all these years, the matchup with Nadal still gave him more of a thrill than facing an unknown rising player.
“I think a combination,” he said. “If it was only Rafa, I wouldn’t enjoy that as well. I think having the mix is the magic really for me. Playing against young guys to eventually get to Rafa, that’s exciting.”
It was quite an achievement for Nadal to get to Federer through the 22-year-old Khachanov. He was visibly hampered by his knee trouble, which first required treatment on court with Khachanov leading by 2-1 in the second set. Visibly slower and unable to push off as powerfully with his legs to serve, he still found a way to grind and win.
“It’s a special victory considering the way I was feeling,” Nadal said.
Playing with pain has unfortunately become close to the rule on hardcourts for Nadal, who has long complained and warned about the physical toll of hardcourt play.
Nadal, 32, conceded that part of the problem was playing more than 1,100 matches in his career, not just playing on hardcourts. But he also pointed out that other sports tended to be played regularly on grass or on other more forgiving surfaces.
“I love to play on hard, but probably my body doesn’t love it that much,” he said. “And my feeling is there are a lot of players that love to play on hard, true, but their bodies don’t love to play on hard, either.”
He is also concerned about the price he and others might pay in retirement. “When I see some old legends walking around the tour,” he said, “it’s tough.”



Supported by
ByThe Associated Press
HOUSTON — Marcel Granollers upset Taylor Fritz 6-2, 4-6, 6-2 in the first round of the US Men's Clay Court Championship on Monday.
Granollers, who won the title in 2008, beat No. 5 seed Fritz, who reached the semifinals last season, for his second tour-level victory this season.
Ryan Harrison beat 40-year-old Ivo Karlovic, who won the title in 2007, 6-3, 6-4.
Casper Ruud defeated Hugo Dellien 7-6, 6-4, Christian Garin beat Pablo Cuevas 4-6, 6-4, 6-2 and Bernard Tomic defeated Denis Kudla 7-6, 7-5 in the rest of the first-round singles action.
In doubles play, Austin Krajicek and Artem Sitak defeated Lleyton Hewitt and Jordan Thompson 6-2, 4-6, 10-8.
Play continues on Tuesday.
___
More AP tennis coverage: https://apnews.com/apf-Tennis
Supported by
ByDaniel Victor
Naomi Osaka, the half-Haitian, half-Japanese tennis champion, is the star of a new Japanese anime-style advertisement.
The problem? The cartoon Ms. Osaka bears little resemblance to her real, biracial self.
Her skin was unmistakably lightened, and her hair style changed — a depiction that has prompted criticism in Japan, where she haschallenged a longstanding sense of cultural and racial homogeneity.
The ad — unveiled this month by Nissin, one of the world’s largest instant-noodle brands — features Ms. Osaka and Kei Nishikori, Japan’s top-ranked male tennis player, in a cartoon drawn by a team commissioned by Nissin. The cartoon was based on the work of Takeshi Konomi, a well-known manga artist whose series “The Prince of Tennis” is popular in Japan.
Ms. Osaka, who faces Elina Svitolina in an Australian Open quarterfinal match on Wednesday, and Mr. Konomi have not publicly commented on the reactions to the ad.
But a Nissin spokesman apologized in an email on Tuesday for “the confusion and discomfort.”
The spokesman, Daisuke Okabayashi, said that the characters had been developed in line with Mr. Konomi’s anime series and that the company had communicated with Ms. Osaka’s representatives.
“There is no intention of whitewashing,” he said. “We accept that we are not sensitive enough and will pay more attention to diversity issue in the future.”
After the ad was first published online, people on social media, including many fans of Ms. Osaka’s, said they were deeply disappointed.
Baye McNeil, an author who has lived in Japan for 15 years, said he didn’t understand why the ad would “erase her black features and project this image of pretty much the prototypical anime girl-next-door character.”
Ms. Osaka’s rise into a beloved national figure has been particularly exciting for biracial people in Japan, known as hafus, who have long battled for acceptance, he said.
“Making her look white just tells these people that what they are isn’t good enough,” Mr. McNeil said.
Ms. Osaka was born in Japan to a Haitian-American father and a Japanese mother, and moved to the United States when she was 3. Although she isn’t fluent in Japanese, often responding to questions from Japanese reporters in English, she has tweeted about her love of manga and Japanese movies.
Ranked fourth in the world at just 21, she’s already among Japan’s most accomplished tennis players ever. She became the first Japanese-born tennis player to win a Grand Slam singles championship in September when shedefeated Serena Williams in the U.S. Open, a victory that supercharged her celebrity ascent.
That win prompted a cartoon in an Australian newspaper that was criticized for itsdepiction of Ms. Williams, which many saw as a racist caricature. While most of the condemnation focused on how the Australian cartoonist drew Ms. Williams, critics also noted that Ms. Osaka was depicted with blond hair and light skin.
Black characters aren’t frequently found in anime, but artists in the medium havesuccessfully depicted their skin tones before.
“When there is a black character, it’s clearly a black character,” Mr. McNeil said.
The discussion of biracial identity in Japan got a boost in 2015 when Ariana Miyamoto, who is half-Japanese, half-African-American,won the Miss Universe Japan pageant. She used her fame to discuss the plight of “hafus,” but some in Japan were unwilling to accept her as a model of Japanese beauty.
In interviews, Ms. Osaka has embraced her multicultural background.
“Maybe it’s because they can’t really pinpoint what I am,”she said in 2016, “so it’s like anybody can cheer for me.”
An earlier version of this article misstated who drew the anime-style advertisement that featured Naomi Osaka with lighter skin. It was a team that Nissin commissioned, not the manga artist Takeshi Konomi, though the ad was based on Mr. Konomi’s work.
Makiko Inoue contributed reporting.




Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MELBOURNE, Australia — Amanda Anisimova is seen by many as the future of American tennis, but she sometimes yearns for a second opinion from a third eye.
She drives by so many psychic readers around her home in South Florida. “I always want to go in,” Anisimova, 17, said.
“I’m kind of scared, because I don’t want to know what my future is going to look like: I want it to be a surprise,” she added. “But I want to hear what they have to say.”
No clairvoyance was necessary to see Anisimova’s potential as she dominated 11th-seeded Aryna Sabalenka, 6-3, 6-2, on Friday to reach the fourth round of the Australian Open. That victory made Anisimova the first player born this century to reach the second week of a Grand Slam tournament, and the youngest American to do so since Serena Williams at the 1998 French Open.
Not all forecasts were accurate, however: Before the match began, a Tennis Australia “Win Predictor” graphic gave Anisimova only a 9 percent chance of beating Sabalenka, who was apopular pick to win the tournamentamong many pundits and the oddsmakers’ third favorite behind only Williams and Angelique Kerber.
“That’s a pretty rough number — I’m surprised by that,” Anisimova said. “But she’s a top player; she’s had such a great year. I was just playing really well, and she was playing really well, too. We had a great match, and it just ended up going my way today.”
Anisimova, ranked 87th, is likely to be undaunted by her next opponent: sixth-seeded Petra Kvitova, whomshe beat last yearin Indian Wells, Calif.
“Every player here is going to be great, and every round is going to be tough,” she said. “I just focus on myself, and I’m not really scared of anyone. I don’t fear anyone. I just have a lot of confidence in myself, and I’m ready for tough matches.”
Although Anisimova’s ability to dictate play against the ultra-aggressive Sabalenka gained more attention, one of her hardest matches came in her first round against the tricky veteran Monica Niculescu, who plays a game chock-full of funky slices that have driven many more established players crazy.
“There isn’t a teenager who would have won the first round against Niculescu besides Amanda,” said her agent, Max Eisenbud. “That match, until today’s match, was her most impressive win. The way Niculescu slices and throws everything at you, it was getting tight, and she was able to perform. A crafty, experienced girl who threw everything at her, and she still won in straight sets.”
Eisenbud also represents the player to whom Anisimova is most often compared: Maria Sharapova. While he said that comparisons between the two — blondes with Russian roots who stormed the tennis stage at a young age — were unfair to both, he observed that Anisimova and Sharapova did share a diligent work ethic and an ability not to be fazed in the biggest moments.
Frances Tiafoe, who also reached the second week of a Grand Slam for the first time on Friday, gushed over Anisimova, in his own way.
“It’s like she’s been a veteran,” Tiafoe said. “She’s going out here, and Sabalenka is playing great tennis — she routined her like it was nothing. It was barbecue chicken for her. It’s unbelievable.”
In her news conference Friday, Anisimova said that her confidence was growing.
“I believe in myself so much more than I ever did in this tournament,” she said. “It’s just trusting myself. That’s why I have been also playing really well.”
That confidence leads her to hope she can follow in Sharapova’s footsteps in another way: by becoming a Grand Slam champion as a teenager. Asked what her dream was for her career, Anisimova expressed a desire for instant gratification.
“I want to win this tournament — right now,” she said, smiling.
Anisimova, who broke through at the junior level by winning the 2017 United States Open girls’ title, complements her desire for immediacy with an uncommon curiosity about the past, expressing her admiration for Billie Jean King, the pioneer who played a formative role in getting women’s professional tennis off the ground.
“Back then it was so different and so difficult,” Anisimova said. “How much she worked, it was just crazy. Everything that she was doing just really surprised me. And that’s something also I remember: I tell myself I’m tired after an easy day — then seeing how much stuff she was doing? It was amazing how much she’s done for the WTA and women’s tennis.”
Modern issues are also a concern for Anisimova. She was particularly affected by the shooting last February that killed 17 at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., near where she trains.
“I’m not in a little tennis bubble,” she said. “The gun thing, it was so close to home. I know a girl who goes to that school, so it was just very scary. I just thought at the time — and I still think to this day — that guns are very dangerous and we shouldn’t be having them, using them.”
Anisimova was born in Freehold, N.J., but drew a blank when asked about the town’s most famous export. “Wait — Bruce who?” she asked. “Is he, like, old?”
After a few bars of “Born in the U.S.A.” were hummed and a brief description was provided, Anisimova acknowledged some faint recognition of Bruce Springsteen’s work but said it was unfair to expect more from someone born in 2001.
“Yeah,” she said, “how am I supposed to know that?”



Supported by
While Caroline Wozniacki and Roger Federer aim to defend their singles titles in Melbourne, some younger players have shown signs that they can make a run.
ByGeoff Macdonald
Khachanov, a 22-year-old Russian, began 2018 ranked 45th in the world and enters the Australian Open as the No. 10 seed. He gave Rafael Nadal all he could handle in a hugely entertaining four-set match in the third round of the United States Open, and then won the Paris Mastersby defeating four straight top-10 opponents: John Isner, Alexander Zverev, Dominic Thiem and top-ranked Novak Djokovic. Khachanov, who is 6-foot-5, has a huge serve and a Western forehand with a long, flowing backswing that suddenly accelerates at the ball, giving the impression that he is a cracking whip. It makes the shot nearly impossible to read.
Coric, 22, has not won a match in four previous trips to the Australian Open, but he hadan extraordinary 2018: reaching a career-high ranking of 12th,defeating Roger Federer twice and, with Marin Cilic, leading Croatia to its second Davis Cup title. A left-hander by nature who plays right-handed, Coric is 6-2 with a game that has evolved from a defensive, counterpunching style to a more aggressive, opportunistic brand of tennis. He has developed a superb serve, and his return of serve puts enormous pressure on his opponent. His two-handed backhand is considered one of the best in the game. His forehand, once a liability, is much improved.
Medvedev, a 22-year-old Russian,rose from No. 65 to No. 16 in the world in 2018 and attributes his ascent to a better serve and more control of his temper. He won in Tokyo in October with dominant serving, dropping just one set as he captured his third tour title. Last week, he reached the final in Brisbane with wins over Andy Murray, Milos Raonic and Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, then lost in three sets to a resurgent Kei Nishikori. A lanky 6-6, Medvedev does not look powerful, but he hits the ball cleanly with perfect timing and with great disguise. He can serve bombs and also hit wide serves with a spin that opens up the court for his second shot.
Sabalenka, a 20-year-old from Belarus, opened her 2019 season with a stirring three-set victory over Alison Riske to win the Shenzhen Open. Sabalenka began 2018 ranked 73rd, but under the tutelage of Dmitry Tursunov, a former tour player, she has risen to No. 11 by harnessing her prodigious power game and staying in points longer with improved shot selection. Her breakthrough came in the Cincinnati event in August, when she reached the semifinals with wins over Johanna Konta, Karolina Pliskova, Caroline Garcia and Madison Keys. She followed that by winning the Connecticut Open in New Haven, and then upsetting Petra Kvitova toreach the fourth round at the United States Open. The 6-foot Sabalenka serves with power and heavy spin, backing that up with a fearsome Western forehand. But what really makes her a threat is the way she plays fearlessly in the big moments of a close match.
Barty, a 22-year-old Australian, had a breakout season in 2018, winning her first Grand Slam doubles title at the United States Open (with CoCo Vandeweghe), and reaching a career-high singles ranking of 15th. In Sydney last week, she upset world No. 1 Simona Halep in straight sets. Barty has an exceptional all-court game, using her athleticism and wide array of shots to confound opponents. Although she is only 5-5, Barty leads the WTA Tour in second serve points won, using her heavy kick serve to pull the returner out of position and then attacking the first ball with her powerful forehand. With her superb volleys and overhead, Barty looks to attack the net, often approaching behind her one-handed slice backhand, which is considered the best in the game. Expect the Australian fans to turn Barty’s matches into rollicking events.
Keys, a 23-year-old American who was the runner-up to Sloane Stephensin singles at the 2017 United States Open, last year reached the quarterfinals of the Australian Open, as well as the semifinals of the French Open and the United States Open. But her other results were somewhat lackluster, and she enters this week ranked 17th. Keys struggled to find a coach to replace Lindsay Davenport, who stopped traveling to spend more time with her family. In December, Keys hired Jim Madrigal, who guided Tennys Sandgren on his run to the quarterfinals in Melbourne a year ago. At 5-10, Keys has one of the game’s best first serves, and she generates astonishing pace with her ground strokes. But she ranks only 27th on tour in second serve points won, at just over 47 percent. An improvement in this area could pay off for Keys.
Geoff Macdonald is the women's tennis coach at Vanderbilt University.
Supported by
On Tennis
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — Deservedly No. 1 in the world at age 21, Naomi Osaka has not made it past the round of 16 in her first two tournaments wearing the crown.
After stumbling at the first hurdle in Dubai last month, she won two matches here in Indian Wells before running into Belinda Bencic.
Though it is too early to start scurrying around the halls and sounding the alarms, it is not too early to observe that Osaka is in the midst of an adjustment process that could take more time to work through than she imagined.
In a little more than six months, the Japanese-American with Haitian roots has become a multicultural star with global reach, fired the coach who helped her zoom to No. 1 by winning two Grand Slam singles titles in a row, and hired a new coach who had yet to be a head coach at this level.
It is a lot to handle, a lot to digest, particularly with people like me poised to parse every performance for signs of trouble.
Bencic gave her plenty to digest, beating Osaka at her own game on Tuesday by taking time and the initiative away as she ended Osaka’s title defense in just 66 minutes in the round of 16 by the no-argument score of 6-3, 6-1.
“Naomi was rushed and didn’t have time to dictate,” said Chris Evert, an 18-time Grand Slam singles champion. “I don’t think Naomi had come across a player like that. All these big hitters like Aryna Sabalenka, and even Serena, are not that close to the baseline. They are two or three feet back. But Bencic plays an entirely different game, and she played a flawless match. She’s back, very back.”
The proof is in her 11-match winning streak, which includes a title in Dubai and five victories over top-10 players. Born in 1997, the same year as Osaka, Bencic has the skills to challenge her often in the seasons to come if she can keep her head and health together. Bencic will play fifth-seeded Karolina Pliskova in the quarterfinals on Thursday.
“I think at a time like this with that score line, I would usually feel very depressed and sad,” Osaka said at her surprisingly upbeat post-match news conference. “But I feel pretty good right now, because I think given the circumstances I tried my best, and I don’t really have any regrets. I tried to be positive throughout the entire match. Honestly, she was just playing so well.”
It was not Osaka’s first look at Bencic, who turned 22 this month. They first played in a small-money event in Alabama on clay in 2013, and Osaka beat Bencic, 6-3, 6-3, which came as a shock considering that Bencic already was a highly regarded junior player from Switzerland and that Osaka had barely played junior tennis at all.
But there was no catching Bencic by surprise on Tuesday. She already had beaten Osaka in straight sets at the 2018 Hopman Cup team event, which is technically an exhibition. And after reaching the top 10 in 2016 and then dropping back because of wrist surgery, she is playing with the point-by-point focus of someone who knows that tennis success, with all its trappings, is not a given.
“I know how frustrating it was when I wasn’t able to play at all,” Bencic said, sounding sage beyond her years.
Osaka sounds a bit wiser herself. The meandering, sometimes cryptic interviews of 2018 have given way to something more considered and open with occasional dashes of her trademark whimsy.
This is not a coincidence. She watched clips of her past news conferences and did not like some of what she saw: the “ums,” the “likes.” At this new stage, she greets questions, of which there are many, with respect, giving the impression that she is weighing each one before answering.
Asked to compare herself now with when she won Indian Wells as an unseeded player in 2018, she gave another measured response, even in defeat.
“I guess one of the biggest things is I wanted to be more mature,” she said. “I feel like this is something I’m still working on — on and off the court. It’s one of the biggest goals that I have had in my entire life.”
“I might have thrown a few tantrums last year,” she added. “And this year it’s something that I’m working on improving, and I feel like it’s going well. I think I’m just more confident in myself.”
Dismissing Sascha Bajin, her silken-voiced German coach, was certainly a bold move. Under his guidance, she defeated Serena Williams, Bajin’s former employer, twice in 2018: once in the first round in Miami and once under much more duressin the United States Open final. With Bajin still by her side, but apparently no longer in her confidence, Osaka fought through another rough-and-tumble drawto win the Australian Openin January.
Neither has explained their split in detail, although Osaka has said it was not a matter of money. She or some members of her team were looking for a lower-profile coach, but there were clearly personal issues at work, too.
“Something happened that must not have been good, although that’s just speculation,” said Evert, who often watched Osaka and Bajin train in Boca Raton, Fla. “They were laughing and having fun practices and teasing each other, and it was great, and then just before the Australian and after the Australian, it was tense.”
Bajin is gone now, replaced by Jermaine Jenkins, a former standout at Clemson University who spent several years as the main hitting partner for Venus Williams, who dismissed her coach, David Witt, and Jenkins in the off-season.
Jenkins was quickly hired as a national coach by the United States Tennis Association to work out of its national campus in Orlando. He was just settling in when he got a text message from Osaka’s agent, Stuart Duguid, inquiring about his availability.
“I had a great new gig at the U.S.T.A., and I was doing my expense report and I get that text message,” Jenkins said with a chuckle this week. “When a great adventure is offered to you, you cannot refuse it.”
Jenkins, 34, knows full well that job security at this level is fragile, which is one of the big reasons he was drawn to the U.S.T.A. post.
“My wife and I live there in Lake Nona,” he said. “Plus, with the coaching carousel, I didn’t want to go back out with another player and then they wake up on the wrong side of the bed and say, ‘Hey I’m not feeling this.’ I was thinking more about security because there are only a few, I feel like, out there that are worth being out here for.”
Osaka, with her talent and star power, is certainly on that short list, and she and Jenkins are now 2-1 after their first tournament together, which included one on-court coaching visit that Osaka jokingly began by suggesting she was having a midlife crisis.
“I just wanted to break the ice,” she said.
Keeping the mood light and keeping tennis in perspective seem like the right idea when there are all sorts of new and powerful forces at work, including celebrity and megamillions.
This also seems a good time for Osaka to remember that the controlled power and controlled emotion that she displayed to win in New York and again in Australia were anything but a fluke.
An earlier version of this article misstated when Belinda Bencic beat Naomi Osaka in straight sets at the Hopman Cup. It was in 2018, not this January.



Supported by
ByNaila-Jean Meyers
On March 2 in Dubai, Roger Federer joined Jimmy Connors as the only male tennis players in the open erawith 100 career titles. With a victory on Sunday over John Isner in thefinal of the Miami Open, Federer, 37, is now eight titles behind Connors’s record of 109.
Here’s a look at Federer’s 101 titles.
The date Federer won his first career title, at age 19, in Milan, defeating Julien Boutter of France, 6-4, 6-7 (7), 6-4. Federer was ranked 27th at the time, Boutter 67th. Boutter reached only two finals on the ATP Tour, winning one, and reached a career-high ranking of 46th. His last tour event was Wimbledon in 2004, a tournament Federer won. (The Milan tournament no longer exists.)
Number of Grand Slam titles — eight at Wimbledon, six at the Australian Open, five at the United States Open and one at the French Open. His most recent came at the 2018 Australian Open.
The number of times he has won the tournaments in Halle, Germany, and his hometown, Basel, Switzerland — his most of any events.
Number of titles on hard courts, most of any surface. (Hard courts are the most common surface on tour.) He has won 18 tournaments on grass and 11 on clay. His first title, in Milan, is one of only two on indoor carpet.
Most titles in one year, in 2006. The first came against Gaël Monfils in Doha, Qatar, in January; the last against James Blake at the Masters Cup, the former name of the year-end finals, in Shanghai in November.
The only year since 2001 in which Federer has not won a tournament. He sustained a knee injury in January and shut down his season in late July in order to fully recover.
Number of countries in which Federer has won a title, including Japan, Qatar, Sweden, Canada, Portugal, Turkey and the Netherlands.
Number of different opponents, from 25 different countries, who Federer defeated in finals — including Novak Djokovic, Jiri Novak, Philipp Kohlschreiber, Mark Philippoussis, Andre Agassi, Igor Andreev, David Nalbandian and Nikolay Davydenko. Twenty-five of those opponents are now retired, according to the ATP.
Number of times he has beaten Rafael Nadal in a final, most of any opponent. Who’s No. 2? Andy Roddick, with seven.
Number of times he won a tournament final in straight sets.
Length of his shortest title-clinching win, a 6-2 6-2 victory over David Goffin in Basel in 2014.
Length of his longest title-clinching win,a 5-7, 7-6 (6), 7-6 (5), 3-6, 16-14 victoryover Roddick in the 2009 Wimbledon final. The victory gave Federer his 15th major title, breaking Pete Sampras’s record.
His lowest ranked opponent in a final, but it was a familiar name. On Oct. 2, 2005, Federer, then 24, defeated 18-year-old Andy Murray, 6-3 7-5, in the final of the Thailand Open in Bangkok. It was the first of 25 career meetings between the two, and the first ATP Tour final of Murray’s career.
Number of times Federer defeated Ivan Ljubicic in a tournament final. Ljubicic, 40, is now one of Federer’s coaches.
Number of times Federer has lost in a tournament final, missing a chance to add to his trophy case.
Ben Rothenberg contributed reporting.
Supported by
On Tennis
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — With the benefit of hindsight it is easy to see that these past two weeks at the Australian Open have been nothing more than a warm-up for Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic.
Maybe we should have kept from wasting time on the men’s side and gone straight to the showcase, the final on Sunday, when two titans will revive their rivalry and battle once again for the Australian Open crown.
The question of who would meet in the final became clear on Friday evening, as Djokovic cruised past the French underdog Lucas Pouille, winning, 6-0, 6-2, 6-2.
It was a demolition both thorough and brief, and it mirrored what Nadal had done in his final four clash the night before, when he dismantled fast-rising Stefanos Tsitsipas of Greece.
Nadal took 106 minutes, lightning fast for a match at that stage of a Grand Slam. Djokovic versus Pouille lasted only 83 minutes, with Djokovic riding his precision groundstrokes and feline quickness to the win.
“A perfect match for me,” Djokovic described it. “From the first to the last point.”
He looked calmly self-assured as he said this — nothing like the doubtful athlete who struggled through a nasty elbow injury and upset losses in Melbourne in 2017 and 2018, during the one confounding low period in his career. His performance on Friday had a transcendent quality, he said, and he called such a feeling “divine” and “in the zone, where everything flows so effortlessly and you are executing everything you are intending to execute.”
He added that the semifinal was one of the best matches he had played on the sea blue center court at Rod Laver Arena.
That’s saying a lot.
He was speaking, after all, of the court on which he will soon be aiming for a record seventh Australian Open title; of the court on which he won the first of his 14 major titles, when he beat another French player, Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, in 2008.
It is also the court where he played one of the most stirring, and still the longest, Grand Slam finals in tennis history: the 5-hour-53-minute war of wills he won against Nadal in 2012, one of the greatest matches ever played, after which both players struggled to stay upright at the trophy ceremony.
“Hopefully,” Djokovic cracked, “we don’t go that long this time.”
You never know.
Djokovic brawling against Nadal for the 53rd time — Djokovic leads, 27-25 — is expected to scintillate. It may awaken memories of when the two were younger, fresher, but not necessarily better, versions of what they are today, when they seem far and away the two best on the planet, their old rivals diminished or injured or close to retirement, their new rivals not ready yet.
For sports fans in the United States, this is one of those events worth setting the clock for, a match scheduled to start at the very uncivilized time of 3:30 a.m. Eastern on Sunday.
Just as in the run-up to the 2012 final, the Serb, Djokovic, is ranked No. 1 in the world, and the Spaniard, Nadal, is No. 2 and nipping at his heels.
But seven years on, they are also very different. The Nadal of Melbourne 2019 is riding a game he has clearly modified for this event — a change made, he has acknowledged, as an adaptation to being 32.
Here, at a tournament in which he has not lost a single set, he is looking to keep his legs spry, his troublesome knees healthy. He is hitting more balls on the short hop, sticking closer to the baseline, volleying more. He has also streamlined his service motion, cutting fat from his windup in a search for more accuracy and greater pop.
Djokovic can see the difference. Speaking of the man he described as his primary rival (take that, Roger Federer), Djokovic noted that the changes were working for Nadal.
“I think he’s backing his first shot up with that great serve, saving energy, and then he can go for more in the return game,” Djokovic said. “With everything he possesses, all the qualities in his game, adding a lot of free points on the serve makes him much tougher to play against.”
Both players have had to adapt, had to overcome recent difficulty, to get to this point. Nadal arrived in Melbourne with low expectations, having taken a hiatus from the tour after last fall’s United States Open, where he withdrew in the semifinals, citing a leg injury. In November, he had ankle surgery.
Dogged by his injured elbow at last year’s Australian Open, Djokovic was routed in the quarterfinals by Hyeon Chung, a South Korean ranked No. 58 at the time. That loss was one of a batch of stunning upsets he suffered in major championships after winning the French Open in 2016. Plenty of questions were swirling around him at the time. He often wore a hangdog, puzzled look on his face during matches, where once there had been nothing but ice-cold surety.
Would he ever return to form?
But then, last summer, after elbow surgery and a remodeling of his priorities and his coaching team, the old Djokovic emerged. His health returned. So, too, did his steel-trap resolve. He won Wimbledon, beating Nadal in a five-set marathon that Djokovic credited here with giving “a different, more confident self.”
Later in the summer, he won his 14th Grand Slam at a sweltering U.S. Open, tightening his grip on the top of the men’s rankings.
Now he finds himself again in a Melbourne final, with a chance to repeat the glory of 2012, a chance for a 15th Grand Slam, just two behind the Spaniard’s haul of 17, within striking distance of Federer, who sits at 20 for most in a career.
At his postmatch news conference, I asked Djokovic to imagine a future conversation with his two children, who were not yet born seven years ago, and how he would describe that last epic Melbourne night against Nadal.
“How would I describe it?” he said, pausing before adding a touch of humor. “I’ll probably not have them sit down and watch it because I don’t like my children to watch TV that long.”
Then he grew serious.
“I would probably present it in more a general concept of our rivalry. That match would be icing on the cake.”
On Sunday, seeking a seventh Australian Open title, he will have the chance to add more icing, indeed a whole extra layer, to that cake, to the legacy of a glorious career.
An earlier version of this article misidentified the tournament Novak Djokovic won in 2016 before suffering a batch of upsets in major tournaments. It was the French Open, not Wimbledon.




Supported by
On Tennis
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — Ranked No. 178 at the end of last season, the Canadian teenager Bianca Andreescu set an ambitious goal for herself, it seemed: Climb high enough in the rankings to be able to get into the main draw of this year’s second Grand Slam event, the French Open, in May.
Time for a new goal.
“So quickly, like everything is happening so quickly!” she exclaimed late Friday evening as she sat for an interview as a surprise finalist in the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells.
Her run here at age 18 as an unseeded wild card has been a revelation, featuring a 6-0, 6-1 demolition of the former No. 1 Garbiñe Muguruza in the quarterfinals and a grueling 6-3, 2-6, 6-4 victory over sixth-seeded Elina Svitolina in the semifinals on Friday.
Now ranked 60th, she is the first wild card to reach the final of this top-tier women’s tournament, going one round further than Martina Hingis in 2006 and Serena Williams in 2015.
That is pretty fair tennis company.
“Thoughts? So many thoughts,” she said, putting both hands to her head. “Another goal of mine was to make history, and I just did. It’s incredible.”
Tennis remains a brutally competitive individual sport, in which health, confidence and emotional balance can prove precarious, particularly when a young star emerges in a hurry.
For now, Andreescu has won just one round in a Grand Slam singles tournament, when she qualified for this year’s Australian Open after a surprise run to the final in Auckland. But her breakthrough this season does not look like a fluke. She has the varied all-court game and precise, athletic footwork to give purists goose bumps. And her fighting spirit and open personality should speak to a wider audience, too.
“She is playing with a combination of freedom and fearless determination; I hope she can hold on to this,” said Sven Groeneveld, the experienced Dutch coach who has helped Mary Pierce, Ana Ivanovic and, most recently, Maria Sharapova win major titles.
The next hurdle for Andreescu is a big one: eighth-seeded Angelique Kerber, a former No. 1 and three-time Grand Slam singles champion, in Sunday’s final.
“In the third set against Svitolina, I told myself, ‘I’m going to stick to my tactics and just go for it,’” Andreescu said. “So that’s what I did, and that’s what I’ve been doing for the last couple of months. This is my first time actually on the tour playing against such high-level athletes, so I really have nothing to lose, and in the final as well I have nothing to lose. I’m just going to go out there and believe in myself because anything is possible.”
Andreescu, born to Romanian parents in the Toronto suburb Mississauga, is part of a new wave of gifted Canadian teenagers with flashy games, immigrant families and potential Grand Slam titles in their future.
It includes Denis Shapovalov, the 19-year-old with the leaping, one-handed backhand who is ranked No. 25 in the men’s game, and Felix Auger-Aliassime, 18, who turned heads here in Indian Wells by upsetting 10th-ranked Stefanos Tsitsipas in the second round.
This comes after the Canadian Eugenie Bouchard broke into the top five at age 20 after a phenomenal 2014, including a run to the Wimbledon final. But Bouchard fell back quickly and is ranked 73rd at age 25. Though she has shown signs of resurgence, she is also a cautionary tale after struggling to manage new expectations, albeit with a more limited tennis skill set than Andreescu’s.
Keeping Andreescu grounded as her prospects soar is her team’s goal, and her own goal, too.
“It’s easy to get distracted,” said her coach, Sylvain Bruneau, the head of women’s tennis at Tennis Canada. “But it’s going to be part of my work to make sure she stays in the moment.”
Andreescu does her part by spending 15 minutes each morning doing what she calls “creative visualization”: imagining herself experiencing the situations she will face on court and off so she will be better equipped to manage them if and when they come. Many elite athletes rely on visualization, including the world’s best women’s Alpine skier, Mikaela Shiffrin.
“I used to do hours and hours of it, but I found that 15 minutes has really helped me, and it’s not time-consuming at all,” Andreescu said. “It’s something I got online from a course. My mom introduced it to me when I was 13, and I have been doing it ever since.”
Andreescu’s parents moved to Canada in 1994. Her mother, Maria, has a master’s degree in economics; her father, Nicu, is a mechanical engineer.
“We arrived in Canada with two suitcases, and that’s all,”Nicu Andreescu told The Globe and Mail. “We had a great first impression when we arrived, having come from a former communist country. We wanted to go to Canada and start a new life and have a better future for any kids we might have.”
Bianca is their only child, and though she developed her game under the umbrella of Tennis Canada, the sport’s governing body there, she said she took her first tennis lesson at age 7 in Romania, where her mother had moved back temporarily for a business opportunity.
That lesson was on clay (bring on Roland Garros), and though her family was soon reunited in Canada, Andreescu has retained strong ties to Romania. Simona Halep, the Romanian star, was one of her two main tennis role models along with Kim Clijsters.
Andreescu speaks Romanian with her parents and attributes her combativeness on court to her “Romanian roots.”
“I think we are very passionate, and we leave it all out there,” she said. “It’s all heart.”
She has shown plenty of grit in Indian Wells, rallying in the first round to beat the Romanian player Irina-Camelia Begu, 6-7 (3), 6-3, 6-3, on the tournament’s second biggest show court.
“I actually thought I was going to lose,” she said. “I was really nervous.”
She experienced back pain in that match, which has been a recurring problem and was still troubling her late Friday night as she repeatedly shifted position in her chair during an interview after the duel with Svitolina.
“I have a lot of weakness in my core, so that’s definitely something I’m improving on,” said Andreescu, who has also missed significant court time with a stress fracture in her foot.
On Friday against Svitolina, she had to fight through leg cramps in the final set, in which she managed to convert her fourth match point — mixing drop shots with big, bold groundstrokes as she constructed points down the stretch.
Though tennis stars are trending taller, Andreescu is 5-foot-7. But she has powerful legs that help her generate tremendous pace when she needs it with both her midcourt forehand and her two-handed backhand and to leap high off the ground when serving. Her second serve, unlike for many players of her size, is not a weakness.
Though she has abundant power and world-class mobility, what separates her from the pack is her ability to change pace. She can lob and generate acute angles with off-speed groundstrokes. She looks comfortable attacking the net and has a solid overhead, which she had to prove repeatedly against Svitolina, a premier defender.
Andreescu fearlessly uses the whole canvas.
“I love that,” she said of the description. “No one has ever said that about my game before, but that definitely describes it, I think. I like to hit every shot in the book.”
She is now 2-0 against top-10 players after upsetting Caroline Wozniacki in January in Auckland, where she also defeated Venus Williams.
The victory over Williams moved her to tears. “Venus is a walking, living, breathing legend,” Andreescu said.
But though the emotions were powerful again on Friday night, beating her tour elders is fast becoming a habit. Andreescu will be ranked in the top 35 on Monday and will break into the top 25 if she defeats Kerber. Instead of merely making it into the French Open draw, she now has a fine chance of being seeded.
“I do believe that I deserve to be here,” she said sotto voce as the interview ended. “But I didn’t expect for it to come so quickly. But I mean, it’s better sooner than later, right? So I can’t complain. It’s just been crazy. I’m so grateful. I never want to take anything for granted. It was so nice to meet you.”



Supported by
ByKaren Crouse
MELBOURNE, Australia — The reigning United States Open champion, Naomi Osaka, was serving to extend her third-round match against Hsieh Su-Wei when she rolled her right foot while running for a ball and tumbled to the ground, prompting the chair umpire to ask if she was O.K.
“No,” Osaka replied, but she was laughing.
Osaka, 21, who was born in Japan and is based in Florida, had already squared herself once, picking her game up after dropping the first set and falling behind 2-4, 0-40 in the second against Taiwan’s Hsieh, a big-seed slayer with a bedeviling slice.
By rising to hold off Hsieh 5-7, 6-4, 6-1, Osaka showed that she is more than O.K. She proved that she is maturing in front of everybody’s eyes like a Polaroid picture.
Osaka’s round of 16 opponent is Anastasija Sevastova, whom she defeated in three sets — after dropping the first — in the quarterfinals of a tuneup event in Brisbane two weeks ago. Osaka struggled with her composure early on against Sevastova in what turned out to be a prelude to a hissy fit.
In a straight-sets semifinal loss to Lesia Tsurenko, Osaka came unstrung. She committed 26 unforced errors, was broken three times and sulked between shots in a display that she apologized for later on her Twitter account.
“Had the worst attitude on the court today,”Osaka wrote. “Sorry to everyone that watched. I keep telling myself to be more mature but seems it’ll take a while.”
Fast forward to Margaret Court Arena in Melbourne two weeks later. In the first set against Hsieh, Osaka produced 20 unforced errors and was broken three times. So upset was Osaka by her start that she kicked her racket on the changeover before the second set, an act of petulance that resulted in her receiving a code violation.
“Of course I would have preferred not to do that, and I’m really sorry that I did,” Osaka said. “But hopefully I’ll learn from that moment.”
It seemed that Osaka had learned nothing from Brisbane when she stood five points from defeat. But a funny thing happened on her way to another dispiriting result. Osaka laughed at her plight, and that moment of mirth acted like a release valve, letting out all the pressure that had been building since she dispatched Serena Williams in straight sets in New York to win her first major title.
Instead of feeling, as she put it, “that either I win the match or I die,” Osaka relaxed and started playing calmer, smarter points, blasting her way into the tournament’s second week.
“She was just playing so well,” Osaka said, referring to Hsieh, “and I think I got overwhelmed. And then early in the second set I tried doing things that I know isn’t necessarily my game, like I was trying to hit higher balls and I don’t even practice doing that.”
She added, “Then after a while, I just started thinking that I’m in a Grand Slam. I shouldn’t be sad; I’m playing against a really great player so I should just enjoy my time and try and put all my energy into doing the best that I can on every point.”
In both her title runs in 2018, at Indian Wells and Flushing Meadows, Osaka won every first set. Her overall record last year when she lost the first set was 2-19. So she is pleased to have already posted two victories, against Sevastova and Hsieh, this month after slow starts.
“I think the more matches that I play like this, the tougher ones, then maybe as I go on it won’t seem as hard,” Osaka said, adding: “I’m happy with how I fought. For me, that’s one of the biggest things I always thought I could improve, because it sort of seems like before I would accept defeat in a way.”
Hsieh presented a stout test because the bigger the stage, the better she seems to play. At last year’s tournament, Hsieh upset the third-seeded Garbiñe Muguruza and the former women’s world No. 2 Agnieszka Radwanska before taking the former champion and ex-women’s world No. 1 Angelique Kerber to three sets.
But as Osaka showed against Serena Williams in their U.S. Open final, she too embraces the big stage. “There is the most attention during Grand Slams, and more people come out than anywhere else,” Osaka said. “So definitely it makes me really happy, and I try to sort of channel that in my tennis.”
When Osaka is home, she trains at the academy in Boca Raton, Fla., run by the 18-time Grand Slam singles champion Chris Evert and her brother, John.
“She’s very nice,” Osaka said, referring to Evert. “Whenever I do see her, she always comes up and says a lot of encouraging words, so I’m really grateful for her.”
Osaka’s eyebrows danced as she divulged a secret. Whatever advice Evert offers, Osaka absorbs it without question. For some reason, she added slyly, her coach, Sascha Bajin, and Evert can say the exact same thing, but it really resonates when Evert says it.
“Not that I’m, like, ragging on Sascha,” Osaka said, grinning, “but it feels like I should listen to her more in a way because — oh, I’m going to get so much hate — I have seen what she did and she’s also played. So it’s a little bit more believable.”
Before the tournament began, Evert described Osaka as “reliable.” And here Osaka is, right on schedule, two victories from a potential rematch with Williams in the semifinals.
Reliable? Yeah, that’s believable.



Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MELBOURNE, Australia — To show a fuller picture of the sport, women’s tennis is shining the spotlight on the coaches who travel the tour with its players.
For 10 years, the WTA has allowed on-court coaching at regular tour events. At this year’s Australian Open, coaches have given news conferences of their own, following their players to the podium after matches. Last season, for the first time, the WTA awarded a Coach of the Year Award, which went to Naomi Osaka’s coach, Sascha Bajin.
But nothing drew more attention to tennis coaches than one getting in trouble. Coaching during a match is not allowed at Grand Slam tournaments, and Serena Williams was assessed a code violation in the women’s final at the United States Open in September when the chair umpire, Carlos Ramos, spotted her coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, gesturing toward her from his seat. His hand movements were replayed as much as any shot from the tournament.
Williams’s ire over the penalty, which she felt was akin to calling her a cheater, set off a series of penalties that overshadowed the match, which was won by Osaka.
Afterward, Mouratoglou admitted to making the signals, but added, “Everyone is doing it, 100 percent of the time.”
Four months later, at the Australian Open, he continued to insist that the rules should change because coaching from the stands is already “completely tolerated — except for one or two people who think they’re different.”
Ramos is officiating matches at this tournament, but he was not assigned to one featuring Williams, who lost in the quarterfinals on Wednesday. At least one prominent player — the men’s semifinalist Stefanos Tsitsipas — has been cited for illegal coaching in Melbourne.
“I think it should become legal because we stop hypocrisy, first of all,” Mouratoglou said. “Second, because it’s great for the show, and we want to have viewers who are not 50 years old. We want to attract the young generation, and we’re not. Tennis is not attracting the young people. And third, I think it’s good for the players.”
Despite the WTA’s calling for coaching to be allowed across the sport after the incident at the U.S. Open, neither the men’s tour nor the Grand Slam tournamentshave moved in that direction.
Steve Simon, the WTA chief executive, said that coaches “contribute an integral element to the on-court and off-court WTA story.”
Simon’s predecessors have seen coaches as resources for enriching its product before. Allowing on-court coaching 10 years ago was motivated more by entertainment considerations than any desire for improving tactics.
Larry Scott, then the tour’s chief executive,said the rule change came from a desirefor “being as fan-friendly as possible and being as responsive to television as possible without altering the fundamentals of the sport.”
Holding news conferences with coaches is part of an initiative spearheaded by the tour’s communications manager, Chase Altieri, who came to the WTA in 2017 after working in the N.F.L., where coaches’ briefings have long been a feature of news media coverage.
WTA coaches have embraced the program, both for the chance to articulate their views and to ease the burden on their players. Bajin has made television appearances in lieu of Osaka to lighten her schedule of obligations during tournaments.
A newsection of the WTA websiteincludes profiles of the coaches, with details like their current and previous partnerships and off-court interests. Simon said the goal was to “bring our fans inside our sport.”
In recent years, the U.S. Open and the Australian Open have begun with allowing coaching during the qualifying rounds, with players able to walk to the side of the court where their coach is sitting during changeovers if they desire a consultation.
Mouratoglou is one of the strongest advocates for on-court coaching, even though his player never uses it. He said Williams’s sense of self-reliance was a weapon he would not dare muzzle.
“I think that her No. 1 quality is to be the best competitor ever, and I don’t want her to think that suddenly she needs someone to be a better competitor; that would make her weaker,” he said. “So, for me, it doesn’t make sense for someone like her.”
Mouratoglou, who has worked with Williams since 2012, owns a tennis academy that bears his name in France and has been a television analyst for ESPN and Eurosport. He said tennis had many untapped areas that could be mined for entertainment purposes.
“Coaching is part of the game,” he said. “If you show it, it’s an incredible adventure for the people to see.”
Before the Australian Open began, Mouratoglou even released a mobile game,Tennis Manager, which offers users the chance to simulate recruiting, training and strategizing with tennis players. Its slogan: “Shape a Champion; Become a Legend.”
Bajin, who worked alongside Mouratoglou for years when he was Williams’s hitting partner, comes down on the opposite side of the coaching debate, saying the rule should not be changed “to make it more interesting” to watch tennis.
“I think it takes away the purity that tennis was,” Bajin said. “My father put me out there on the court in order to become more independent, to learn how to handle problems, to learn how to be by myself, so that nobody can help me — and I think that still parents do that for their kids. That’s why they want them to start this sport, because it’s something special, and I wish we would keep it that way.”
But Bajin admitted that he, too, had occasionally tried to send illicit advice from the stands.
“Sometimes you try to sneak something by,” he said. “I’m guilty of that.”


Supported by
Dylan Alcott, a Grand Slam champion in wheelchair tennis, is a celebrity in his native Australia, extending his influence far beyond the court.
ByBen Rothenberg
MELBOURNE, Australia — It can take a long time for Dylan Alcott, a paraplegic 28-year-old from a nearby suburb, to maneuver his wheelchair from one place to another around the Australian Open.
He’s not slow; he’s just popular.
“People used to stare at me when I was growing up because I was in a wheelchair, and I hated it,” Alcott said. “Now they’re staring at me because they know me. How amazing is that? It’s ‘Oh, that’s Dylan!’ Not, ‘Oh, there’s a guy in a wheelchair.’”
After first gaining recognition for winning a 2008 Paralympic gold medal in wheelchair basketball at 17, Alcott has come to dominate the quad division of wheelchair tennis, winning seven Grand Slam singles titles, including five at the Australian Open. He won his fifthin a row here on Saturdayat Rod Laver Arena, which seats 15,000.
Quad tennis is a small and obscure world, often featuring only four players at major tournaments. But Alcott’s visibility extends far beyond the reach of a tennis stadium. He is the face of ANZ, a bank that is one of the Open’s major sponsors, and appears in advertisements around the grounds and on television. Alcott also served as a courtside analyst for Nine, the Australian network that broadcasts the tournament. During the rest of the year, he works as aradio hostfor national music stations.
When the broadcaster Gerard Whateley introduced Alcott at ameet-and-greet eventon Monday, he made it clear Alcott needed no introduction: “You, sir, are inescapable!”
Being seen and heard as much as possible is a mission in itself for Alcott.
“When I was a kid and I was getting bullied at school and I was really upset, I’d say, ‘I don’t know anyone like me, I don’t see anyone like me on the TV or on the radio or the newspaper, and that sucks! That’s not fair,’” he said.
Alcott said he did not grasp the power of his celebrity until his commercials began to air last year.
“We got videos of a little kid in a wheelchair, and every time the ad comes on, he rolls over to the TV and hugs it, because he saw someone like him on TV,” Alcott said. “We get hundreds like that, and that’s so cool.”
The attention can be exhausting, especially in the midst of competing in a Grand Slam event. Everywhere he goes around Melbourne, people stop, turn and smile in recognition. Though it can eat up hours of his day, Alcott swerves toward those people, rather than away from them, introducing himself and offering to take a photograph.
Alcott also has savored the acceptance of his fellow athletes with whom he has shared the locker room, especially the Australian ones who he sees year-round at Melbourne Park. Last Saturday, Alcott chatted with the 20-time Grand Slam champion Roger Federer at the net when their sessions overlapped on a practice court.
“It’s like you’re just one of them,” Alcott said. “They treat me so well, it’s amazing. It’s cool, and I don’t think any other wheelchair athletes have that. They say, ‘Hi,’ and it’s like they don’t even know you’re in a wheelchair.”
They do notice Alcott’s popularity. Even Stefanos Tsitsipas, who became the Open’s breakthrough star when he beat Federer in the fourth round, deferred to Alcott’s celebrity.
“I introduced myself to Tsitsipas,” Alcott said, “and he said, ‘Mate, you’re the most famous guy here, of course I know who you are!’ I’ll take that. That’s surreal.”
Kris Dent, an executive with the International Tennis Federation, said Alcott’s appeal transcended sports.
“You can't fail to notice that when you come to Australia,” Dent said. “He's become much more than just an athlete. It's a phenomenal story that he has.”
The top-ranked man in able-bodied tennis, Novak Djokovic, has tried his skills in a wheelchair across the net from Alcott, which he said made him appreciate the challenge and the craft of the discipline.
“Dylan deserves the popularity,” Djokovic said. “He’s a very great guy, very charismatic. I’ve said it before, these guys are heroes to me, they really are. They make the game of tennis more beautiful and more unique because of what they do and how they do it.”
After winning Paralympic gold medals in singles and doubles in 2016, Alcott was presented Tennis Australia’s Newcombe Medal, which goes annually to the country’s top player. Alcott said winning an award in a general category rather than one designated for disabled athletes “felt like breaking through.”
Alcott was born with lipomeningocele, which caused a large tumor against his spinal cord. He underwent his first of many surgeries at five weeks old. Health struggles continued throughout his childhood, with his ability to use his extremities worsening at times, both gradually and suddenly.
In 2012, an inebriated acquaintance tried to pick up his chair and dumped him onto the floor, which was covered in broken glass; Alcott severed an artery in his hand in the fall, damaging his ability to use his right hand fully, which is one of the reasons he competes in the quad division. That spelled the end of his wheelchair basketball career and led him to focus on tennis, which he had started playing around age 9 or 10.
“The biggest thing is being really proud of my disability, which is kind of different,” Alcott said. “Most people don’t want to talk about it. I always say, ‘Nah, let’s talk about it, openly and all the time.’ People buy into that.”
Though frank and candid about his challenges, Alcott also has tried to share the fullness of his life.
“People that have a car accident think their life is over, because road safety ads say, ‘If you drink and drive and end up in a wheelchair, your life’s over,’ as a deterrence,” Alcott said. “People look at me and think it’s the same.”
That’s why in his autobiography, “Able,” a best seller published last fall, he said, “I talk about the first time I had sex, when I travel, everything. To be given the platform to do that, that’s so cool.”
The platform for Alcott’s tennis also is growing. His second round-robin match, a 6-7 (3), 6-4, 7-5 victory over David Wagner, was broadcast live on national television. In his on-court interview, Alcott seemed more ecstatic about the viewership than the victory, hoping that disabled people around Australia had watched and drawn inspiration. (By contrast, he won the United States Open in September on an indoor practice facility rather than a main stadium because of rain.)
Alcott, a hip-hop fan who has rapped on stage with Ghostface Killah, started his own music festival, Ability Fest, which catered to the needs of disabled people often left out of such events. The event featured interpreters for the deaf and elevated platforms for seated viewers.
Alcott also founded Get Skilled Access, a consulting group that works to improve how governments and corporations interact with disabled people. His foundation finances opportunities for disabled people because, he noted, he needs $8,000 for a wheelchair while his brother needed only $100 pair of shoes to play Australian Rules Football.
“It might not be Paralympics; it might be a cello, it might be a scholarship to go to university and become a lawyer,” Alcott said. “Why don’t we see people with disabilities in boardroom, in the mainstream? It’s because they haven’t been given the opportunities, and we want to provide that.”
Alcott had a 28-3 record last year on quad tennis circuit, which is for players with at least three extremities affected by a permanent physical disability. He hopes he, too, can grow into something bigger and more powerful than just a tennis player.
“I could win 20 Grand Slams and I’d be happy,” he said, “but I’d regret not doing what I love the most, which is changing perceptions of disability, which broadcasting helps.”
Alcott said he would like to move to New York or London to reach a wider audience.
“Why couldn’t a guy in a wheelchair be the next Jimmy Fallon, or whatever it is?” he said.
As he started to expand on his vision for success in America, Alcott stopped and gestured to something much closer: a girl standing a few meters away, staring at him with a huge smile and tears in her eyes.
“Hello! I’m Dylan,” he said. “How are you, what’s your name? Jessica, what’s going on? Want to get a photo?”
Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weeklyAustralia Letter, start your day with your localMorning Briefingand join us in ourFacebook group.
Supported by
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — The first point of the Australian Open men’s final on Sunday told the story of all that was to come.
With his opening serve, Novak Djokovic stretched Rafael Nadal wide, sending the Spaniard sprawling. Djokovic quickly had his longtime rival exactly where he wanted: off balance and unglued.
In a flash, as Nadal spun 360 degrees and scrambled to recover, Djokovic took a half-dozen confident steps forward. He lined up a backhand and then unleashed a buzzing winner that Nadal did not even try for.
Point won. Point made. Rafael Nadal: toast.
The match, held at Rod Laver Arena on a warm and slightly breezy evening, finished just 2 hours 4 minutes later, Djokovic winning in a full-blown knockout, 6-3, 6-2, 6-3.
This was a win that tightened the 31-year-old Serb’s hold on the top spot in men’s tennis. It also elevated his name once again in the annals of tennis history. He now has a record seven Australian Open titles and has moved to sole possession of third place for major titles, with 15, breaking a tie with Pete Sampras.
The three powerhouse sets were as fine and dominating as Djokovic — or anyone — has ever played in a major tournament final.
“It ranks right at the top,” Djokovic said, assessing his performance at a news conference. “At this level, under these circumstances, it was truly a perfect match.”
He could not have seen this coming. Nobody could.
Djokovic versus Nadal, No. 1 vs. No. 2, was arguably the most anticipated match of the tournament. It was the first occasion in which these two tense rivals — who have now played 53 times on tour, with Djokovic winning 28 — had met in the finals of a Grand Slam event since 2014, when Nadal slipped by Djokovic in four sets at Roland Garros in Paris.
Given the scintillating way both had performed throughout the tournament, with Nadal winning every set he played in his first six matches and with Djokovic winning all but two, it seemed certain that they would duel once again deep into the Melbourne night.
It was a match that was expected to dust off hallowed memories of what might have been their greatest combined moment of glory. In 2012, the two played one of the most epic finals in Grand Slam history, right on Laver’s sea-blue center court:a 5-hour-53-minute marathonwon by Djokovic, the longest major final ever.
But a reprise was not to be. What unfolded was not even a reasonable facsimile.
Still, the night had its own way of being unforgettable. The final failed to offer drama, but it did present beauty — that of a top-flight athlete, among tennis’s greatest champions, operating at the very peak of his powers.
“Things started so quick,” Nadal said, snapping his fingers twice to emphasize the point. “He was pushing me to every ball. He played so well. He hit so long. His return was fantastic. He was super quick.”
Nadal, 32, did not appear particularly downcast after the match. Instead, it seemed as if he had simply resigned himself to the result. He noted that he had been injured and had not been able to prepare for the tournament as he had wished. Indeed, after pulling out of his semifinal match at the United States Open last September and then having ankle surgery, he had not played a match on tour until this tournament began.
But he also allowed that there had been nothing he could really do on Sunday against Djokovic, saying it “was unbelievable, the way that he played, no doubt about that.”
Djokovic made only nine unforced errors. He lost just one point on his serve in the first set. He aggressively shortened every rally he could, keeping them to an average of five shots, a stunningly low number considering the long-distance finals he and Nadal have slugged out in the past. Riding pinpoint accuracy and depth, he so flummoxed Nadal that the Spaniard once swung and whiffed on a forehand.
Nadal, whose tally for major titles remains at 17, three behind Roger Federer’s record, threw all he could muster at the match, especially as it drained from his grip. He worked in as many drop shots as he could. He altered positioning on his returns. He moved early, trying to guess which way Djokovic was serving.
Nothing worked.
Djokovic led early in every stanza and never looked back. There was no tension. The match was shorter by 23 minutes thanSaturday’s stirring women’s finalbetween Naomi Osaka and Petra Kvitova, which also unfolded in three sets but was blessed by tension at every turn.
“For me, one of the most important objectives for the match was to start off well and bring the intensity and make sure that he also feels my presence,” said Djokovic, who looked remarkably calm and centered, both during the match and afterward. “He always makes sure that the opponent across the net feels his presence. That is how he plays. That’s how he behaves. He brings so much energy, jumping around, sprinting.
“It was crucial for me to start off with an early break. Having a set under my belt just made me relax a bit more, not really worry too much. After that, it was smooth.”
Smooth. Perfect summary.
It was a rare lopsided Grand Slam final between men’s tennis greats, reminiscent ofNadal’s wipeout of Federerat the 2008 French Open andJohn McEnroe’s rout of Jimmy Connorsat Wimbledon in 1984.
But it should not be forgotten how far the two came to get to the finals, the hurdles overcome. There is Nadal with his injuries, which have piled up over the years, especially on hard courts. There is Djokovic with the way he struggled with his confidence and his health after winning the French Open in 2016. For two full tennis seasons, it felt as if he was lost in the wilderness, in matches including afourth-round lossat Melbourne Park last year to the unseeded South Korean Hyeon Chung.
Djokovic underwent elbow surgery not long after that match. At first, the operation did not help his on-court results. He appeared to be a doubting and unhappy shadow of his self. Improbably, he found his game on the Wimbledon grass,winning the title thereand then following that up with another championship at the U.S. Open in September.
According to the International Tennis Federation, Djokovic is the first man to record three streaks of three or more Grand Slam titles in a row. He won four straight from Wimbledon in 2015 to the 2016 French Open, and three in a row from Wimbledon in 2011 to the 2012 Australian Open.
His chance to hold all four major titles at the same time will come in four months at the French Open, which he has won only once (Nadal has been the champion at Roland Garros 11 times).
Sustain this level through the United States Open, and it is not impossible to imagine him winning a calendar-year Grand Slam. No man has done that since Rod Laver in 1969.
And what about reaching Federer’s record 20 Grand Slam titles?
Asked about those milestones on Sunday, Djokovic was his typically reflective self.
“I am aware that making history of the sport that I truly love is something special,” he said.
He then gave a nod to the kind of uncertainty that he knows very well, firsthand: the way injuries and loss of confidence can shake the very best of foundations. There are no sure bets.
“How many seasons are to come? I don’t know,” he added, noting that he was trying hard not to get too far ahead of himself. “I do want to definitely focus myself on continuing to improve so I would be able to compete at such a high level for the years to come — and have a shot at eventually getting closer to Roger’s record.
“It’s still far.”
True, but if he keeps playing in the fluid, focused way he did on this Sunday evening in Melbourne, 20 Grand Slams will come into focus soon enough.




Supported by
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — Could the 2019 Australian Open be the Grand Slam tournament in which a budding cast of young American men breaks through?
The odds remain against that happening — thanks in part to a guy named Roger Federer — and there remains much tennis to be played. But after a pair of second-round upsets by Frances Tiafoe and Taylor Fritz on Wednesday, the stage just might be set.
The first surprise came when Tiafoe, who turns 21 on Sunday, finished off fifth-seeded Kevin Anderson behind powerful forehands and serves. It was the biggest win of Tiafoe’s young career and the biggest shock of the tournament so far.
“C’mon!” he shouted, rolling up his right shirt sleeve, then thumping his right biceps repeatedly with his left hand, a move that seemed freighted with both bravado and relief. Tiafoe, the son of immigrants from Sierra Leone who learned the game at the Maryland tennis clubwhere his father was a custodian, has long been touted as a prodigious talent. But he has also seemed burdened by the weight of expectations.
“It means the world to me,” Tiafoe told a crowd he had clearly won over during the tense three-hour match.
The arena scoreboard flashed with the final score, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4, 7-5, telling a story of its own. Early on, Anderson had pushed ahead, leading by 3-0 in the second set after winning the first. Then Tiafoe turned the tide.
“I lost to Kevin three times last year,” Tiafoe, ranked No. 39, explained in an on-court interview. “I was down a set and break today. I went to a different place. I dug deep. It’s just how bad you want it, and I wanted it bad.”
Indeed, in the beginning, it looked as if Tiafoe might soon be flying home for more practice at the United States Tennis Association’s campus in Orlando, Fla., where many young American hopefuls train. But then he altered his approach — and flashed the kind of game that he will have to employ if he is to get past Andreas Seppi of Italy, a tour veteran ranked No. 35, in the third round.
He had decided to “kind of just mix it up,” he explained. “Play smarter. Don’t try to go for cannons. Be unpredictable.” Once he settled on a game plan, Tiafoe was particularly effective mixing a slew of low-bouncing slices into his powerful repertoire, forcing Anderson out of his comfort zone, making Anderson bend and contort his 6-foot-8 frame.
How far can Tiafoe go at this tournament? When I posed that question to him, he was succinct. “To the third round, man,” he said, before laughing slyly.
Should Tiafoe beat Seppi on Friday, he would find himself deeper in a Grand Slam tournament than he has ever been. Maybe because he’s keenly aware of that fact, he leaned on a tried-and-true sports cliché — but one that might show he has enough locked-in maturity to do real damage right now. He said he couldn’t afford to consider anything more than the next match.
“Look at today, I mean, he is five in the world,” Tiafoe said, referring to Anderson, who is actually ranked No. 6. “I was able to beat him. It’s so tight now. Anybody plays a good match, you can beat anybody on a given day.”
Fritz, 21, a Californian ranked 50th, can only hope those last words ring true. Shortly after Tiafoe’s win, Fritz upset 30th-seeded Gaël Monfils of France, 6-3, 6-7 (8), 7-6 (6), 7-6 (5). The match featured some of the most exquisite shotmaking of the tournament’s opening days.
Like Tiafoe, Fritz has never advanced past the third round of a major. But Fritz’s next opponent is Federer, the two-time defending champion and No. 3 seed. The two have played only once: Federer won a tight three-setter on grass in 2016, as Fritz was just starting out on the tour.
“I learned my lesson last time we played,” Fritz said. “I won the second set, and it was one of the most amazing feelings I have ever had playing tennis, winning a set off Roger Federer! And then we were deep in the third and I had a chance to break his serve, and I started thinking: Oh my God, I am about to beat Federer. I might beat Federer.
“And then that thinking definitely lost me the match pretty quick. I didn’t win another game after that. I have definitely learned I just have to treat it like any other match.”
Playing Federer in Melbourne will not be any other match, of course. Same for Tiafoe, when he battles Seppi. But both matches present a real opportunity.
“Between Frances and Taylor today, we saw something different, something better, an intensity and composure I have never seen before,” said Martin Blackman, the U.S.T.A.’s general manager for player development. “All of our players can learn from this.”
Blackman oversees a group that includes the 7-footer Reilly Opelka, 21, whoupset ninth-seeded John Isneron Monday before losing a five-setter on Wednesday, and Mackenzie McDonald, 23, the former N.C.A.A. champion who fell in four tight sets to sixth-seeded Marin Cilic.
If any of the young American men are to begin making a bona fide dent in pro tennis, there is no better time to start than now.


Supported by
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — Simona Halep of Romania is ranked No. 1 in the world in women’s tennis. Last season, she won her first Grand Slam title, on the red clay of Roland Garros.
On Monday night at Melbourne Park, she faced an opponent who, if judged by the numerical listing spit out by the pro tour’s computer, should have been handled by Halep with relative ease. Except that player, currently ranked 16th in the world, is no slouch. That player, in fact, is Serena Williams, pure greatness in fishnet tights.
Halep versus Williams in the round of 16 was a rare moment in tennis. It was a match in which the top-ranked player was also the decided underdog. Not only was Halep facing a formidable opponent with 23 major titles, seven of them in Melbourne alone, but she was also confronting someone who had dominated their career head-to-head matchups, winning eight times and losing just once.
So it was hardly a shock that Williams ended up improving that record on Monday, rolling past the 27-year-old Halep by a 6-1, 4-6, 6-4 score.
In the quarterfinals, Williams will now face seventh-seeded Karolina Pliskova of the Czech Republic, who easily defeated Garbiñe Muguruza of Spain, 6-3, 6-1, to advance. Williams has beaten Pliskova twice in three matches, but the one loss came in the United States Open semifinals in 2016. Pliskova, meanwhile, has won all nine matches she has played this season. Williams will be the lower-ranked player when they meet but is again the actual favorite.
“I have to return better, but I will be ready,” Williams vowed as she looked ahead to Pliskova. “She’s ready, I’m ready, let’s do it.”
It was vintage Serena confidence. And it also stood in contrast to her demeanor at the very beginning of her match against Halep. In those opening moments, Williams actually seemed shaky. She lost her first service game, the product of uncharacteristically poor shot-making and a clunky double fault.
But in a flash, Williams got going. Playing with great precision, she continuously sent balls deep and into corners, often for winners.
Game after game flew by, six straight in all decided in Williams’s favor. At the age of 37, she simply did not allow her younger opponent to find her rhythm. Total time for the opening set: 20 minutes.
“I felt like I’d been hit by a train,” Halep would say later.
“I played really good,” Williams said when asked about that first set. She spoke in a plain, matter-of-fact tone.
A question came: “Were those six straight games the best you had played since coming back last year after the baby was born?”
“I don’t know,” she replied, “but probably.”
Still, Halep is among the most tenacious fighters in tennis, and as the match progressed, she began extending the rallies, which is more to her liking and style. She began serving better, fending off Williams’s attacks.
“I felt that my level is growing,” Halep said afterward. “And I had more confidence.”
And after capturing the second set, there was a brief period in the third when Halep appeared to have Williams on the ropes. Williams looked fatigued, her movements slower and less sure. But midway through that final set, Williams fended off three crucial break points. In the last, she pinned Halep into a corner and blasted a backhand winner down the line.
As happens so often in tennis, Halep had trouble bouncing back from missing such an important opening. And as happens so often when Williams seems to be in trouble, she broke serve in the next game, seizing control with a string of strong baseline replies.
When the last game of the match arrived, Halep offered meager resistance. Williams had prevailed again. Total time: 1 hour 47 minutes.
Afterward, Halep was asked about the dynamics of taking on Williams, and whose confidence should have been higher when the match began.
“You are ranked No. 1, and she is Serena Williams,” the questioner began before Halep politely cut him off.
“Exactly,” she said.
That one word response said it all, for Halep and for all of the women not named Serena who end up at the top of the computer rankings so long as she is playing.
Williams now seems to be closing in on her old form after taking time off following the 2017 birth of her daughter. Even with that layoff, Williams still made the finals at Wimbledon and the U.S. Open last year. At the U.S. Open, she lost the final to Naomi Osaka in a swirl of controversy and accusations of sexism.
Williams is on a collision course with Osaka again. Seeded fourth in Melbourne, Osaka advanced to the quarterfinals with a 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 victory over Anastasija Sevastova on Monday. Osaka next plays sixth-seeded Elina Svitolina and could face Williams in the semifinals.
Williams’s goal is clear and right there for the taking. If she wins her next three matches, she wins her 24th Grand Slam title, at last equaling the Australian great Margaret Court’s total of major singles championships.
Will she?
Her coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, offered the strongest assessment.
“I believe she will,” he said. “She is ready physically, I think emotionally, too.”
“She is back,” he added, “to being Serena.”


Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MELBOURNE, Australia — For Simona Halep, it was better to think that the United States Open wasn’t held last year.
“Never happened,” Halep said, grinning. “That tournament didn’t exist.”
Top-seeded Halep was ousted from that tournament within its opening hours, blasted off the court by Kaia Kanepi ina 6-2, 6-4 demolitionthat sent shock waves through the newly built Louis Armstrong Stadium.
Five months and 10,000 miles removed from that scene on Tuesday evening at the Australian Open, Halep was able to build back her sturdy defenses, digging into a gritty first-round rematch and defeating Kanepi, 6-7 (2), 6-2, 6-4, in 2 hours 11 minutes.
Halep, who has had a tendency to give into negativity when being outplayed, did not relent this time. She expressed frustration, exasperation and disbelief after Kanepi struck many of her 40 winners, but remained dialed in throughout.
Halep said all she could control was her effort.
“I think it’s the best match I played in the last period, not giving up for one ball,” she said. “I think I improved in that direction.”
Halep’s consistent, rugged defense eventually outlasted Kanepi’s attacking; Halep hit only eight unforced errors in the final two sets, compared with 36 by Kanepi.
Though a first-round win against a player ranked 71st would not normally be a milestone for a top seed, it was a steep test for Halep. Not only had she been clobbered by Kanepi in their previous meeting, Halep had not won a match since, losing three times and pulling out of the year-end championships with a back injury.
Halep, who has maintained her No. 1 ranking despite not winning a match since August in Cincinnati, projected no precariousness. “If I’m thinking of all these things,” she said, “I cannot play tennis anymore.”
A No. 1 ranked player whose ranking merits a Wheaties box but whose dominance belongs on the side of a milk carton is hardly a rare phenomenon in women’s tennis. Dinara Safina, Ana Ivanovic and Angelique Kerber are among those went through crises of confidence when they reached the top of the ladder. Halep preached contentment, particularly after winning a long-awaited first Grand Slam title at last year’s French Open.
“I’m not putting pressure on myself anymore with the results, but I’m still motivated,” she said. “What comes now, it’s a bonus.”
Halep split with her longtime coach Darren Cahill at the end of last season, but she projected much of the clarity he instilled in her game — perhaps because the two are still in close contact. Cahill, also an analyst for ESPN, the American rights holder for the tournament, was on her court during pretournament practices.
“It’s great to have him around,” she said. “Also it’s tough that he’s not in my team anymore. I don’t know what I’m going to do. For sure, I need a coach, because at this level you cannot do it alone. I’m just chilling for the moment, and we will see after this tournament.”
Because of Halep’s slide, and the even distribution of titles around the top tier of the tour, nine women can leave Melbourne with the No. 1 ranking at the tournament’s end. Halep, who finished the last two seasons at the top, said retaining the spot was not in the front of her mind.
“The ranking doesn’t matter anymore,” she said. “I play tennis because I like it. Now my challenge is to win every match I play. I know it’s probably impossible, but I’m trying just to stay with this thought, and give it my best.”



Supported by
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — The first point of the Australian Open men’s final on Sunday told the story of all that was to come.
With his opening serve, Novak Djokovic stretched Rafael Nadal wide, sending the Spaniard sprawling. Djokovic quickly had his longtime rival exactly where he wanted: off balance and unglued.
In a flash, as Nadal spun 360 degrees and scrambled to recover, Djokovic took a half-dozen confident steps forward. He lined up a backhand and then unleashed a buzzing winner that Nadal did not even try for.
Point won. Point made. Rafael Nadal: toast.
The match, held at Rod Laver Arena on a warm and slightly breezy evening, finished just 2 hours 4 minutes later, Djokovic winning in a full-blown knockout, 6-3, 6-2, 6-3.
This was a win that tightened the 31-year-old Serb’s hold on the top spot in men’s tennis. It also elevated his name once again in the annals of tennis history. He now has a record seven Australian Open titles and has moved to sole possession of third place for major titles, with 15, breaking a tie with Pete Sampras.
The three powerhouse sets were as fine and dominating as Djokovic — or anyone — has ever played in a major tournament final.
“It ranks right at the top,” Djokovic said, assessing his performance at a news conference. “At this level, under these circumstances, it was truly a perfect match.”
He could not have seen this coming. Nobody could.
Djokovic versus Nadal, No. 1 vs. No. 2, was arguably the most anticipated match of the tournament. It was the first occasion in which these two tense rivals — who have now played 53 times on tour, with Djokovic winning 28 — had met in the finals of a Grand Slam event since 2014, when Nadal slipped by Djokovic in four sets at Roland Garros in Paris.
Given the scintillating way both had performed throughout the tournament, with Nadal winning every set he played in his first six matches and with Djokovic winning all but two, it seemed certain that they would duel once again deep into the Melbourne night.
It was a match that was expected to dust off hallowed memories of what might have been their greatest combined moment of glory. In 2012, the two played one of the most epic finals in Grand Slam history, right on Laver’s sea-blue center court:a 5-hour-53-minute marathonwon by Djokovic, the longest major final ever.
But a reprise was not to be. What unfolded was not even a reasonable facsimile.
Still, the night had its own way of being unforgettable. The final failed to offer drama, but it did present beauty — that of a top-flight athlete, among tennis’s greatest champions, operating at the very peak of his powers.
“Things started so quick,” Nadal said, snapping his fingers twice to emphasize the point. “He was pushing me to every ball. He played so well. He hit so long. His return was fantastic. He was super quick.”
Nadal, 32, did not appear particularly downcast after the match. Instead, it seemed as if he had simply resigned himself to the result. He noted that he had been injured and had not been able to prepare for the tournament as he had wished. Indeed, after pulling out of his semifinal match at the United States Open last September and then having ankle surgery, he had not played a match on tour until this tournament began.
But he also allowed that there had been nothing he could really do on Sunday against Djokovic, saying it “was unbelievable, the way that he played, no doubt about that.”
Djokovic made only nine unforced errors. He lost just one point on his serve in the first set. He aggressively shortened every rally he could, keeping them to an average of five shots, a stunningly low number considering the long-distance finals he and Nadal have slugged out in the past. Riding pinpoint accuracy and depth, he so flummoxed Nadal that the Spaniard once swung and whiffed on a forehand.
Nadal, whose tally for major titles remains at 17, three behind Roger Federer’s record, threw all he could muster at the match, especially as it drained from his grip. He worked in as many drop shots as he could. He altered positioning on his returns. He moved early, trying to guess which way Djokovic was serving.
Nothing worked.
Djokovic led early in every stanza and never looked back. There was no tension. The match was shorter by 23 minutes thanSaturday’s stirring women’s finalbetween Naomi Osaka and Petra Kvitova, which also unfolded in three sets but was blessed by tension at every turn.
“For me, one of the most important objectives for the match was to start off well and bring the intensity and make sure that he also feels my presence,” said Djokovic, who looked remarkably calm and centered, both during the match and afterward. “He always makes sure that the opponent across the net feels his presence. That is how he plays. That’s how he behaves. He brings so much energy, jumping around, sprinting.
“It was crucial for me to start off with an early break. Having a set under my belt just made me relax a bit more, not really worry too much. After that, it was smooth.”
Smooth. Perfect summary.
It was a rare lopsided Grand Slam final between men’s tennis greats, reminiscent ofNadal’s wipeout of Federerat the 2008 French Open andJohn McEnroe’s rout of Jimmy Connorsat Wimbledon in 1984.
But it should not be forgotten how far the two came to get to the finals, the hurdles overcome. There is Nadal with his injuries, which have piled up over the years, especially on hard courts. There is Djokovic with the way he struggled with his confidence and his health after winning the French Open in 2016. For two full tennis seasons, it felt as if he was lost in the wilderness, in matches including afourth-round lossat Melbourne Park last year to the unseeded South Korean Hyeon Chung.
Djokovic underwent elbow surgery not long after that match. At first, the operation did not help his on-court results. He appeared to be a doubting and unhappy shadow of his self. Improbably, he found his game on the Wimbledon grass,winning the title thereand then following that up with another championship at the U.S. Open in September.
According to the International Tennis Federation, Djokovic is the first man to record three streaks of three or more Grand Slam titles in a row. He won four straight from Wimbledon in 2015 to the 2016 French Open, and three in a row from Wimbledon in 2011 to the 2012 Australian Open.
His chance to hold all four major titles at the same time will come in four months at the French Open, which he has won only once (Nadal has been the champion at Roland Garros 11 times).
Sustain this level through the United States Open, and it is not impossible to imagine him winning a calendar-year Grand Slam. No man has done that since Rod Laver in 1969.
And what about reaching Federer’s record 20 Grand Slam titles?
Asked about those milestones on Sunday, Djokovic was his typically reflective self.
“I am aware that making history of the sport that I truly love is something special,” he said.
He then gave a nod to the kind of uncertainty that he knows very well, firsthand: the way injuries and loss of confidence can shake the very best of foundations. There are no sure bets.
“How many seasons are to come? I don’t know,” he added, noting that he was trying hard not to get too far ahead of himself. “I do want to definitely focus myself on continuing to improve so I would be able to compete at such a high level for the years to come — and have a shot at eventually getting closer to Roger’s record.
“It’s still far.”
True, but if he keeps playing in the fluid, focused way he did on this Sunday evening in Melbourne, 20 Grand Slams will come into focus soon enough.




Supported by
Several current and former coaches, some with national titles and many with ties to U.S.C., were named in a federal indictment Tuesday.
ByAndrew Das,Marc TracyandNaila-Jean Meyers
The coaches led soccer teams and sailing teams, guided water polo champions and budding volleyball stars. At least two had won N.C.A.A. championships. A third gave Michelle Obama and her daughters tennis lessonsfrom his post at Georgetown.
The coaches charged Tuesday in a massive federalcollege admissions fraud scandalwere some of the most prominent in their fields. But it was their apparent willingness to exploit their access to the admissions process at several exclusive universities that has them facing federal charges.
Who are they? Several had deep associations with the University of Southern California, where Donna Heinel, a senior athletic department administrator, is accused of playing a central role in the scandal. For nearly a decade, Heinel had overseen the admissions of athletes into U.S.C., working closely with several of the current and former Trojans coaches who have been indicted. She was fired Tuesday.
Here is a brief look at the current and former coaches identified by a federal complaint.
U.S.C. water polo coach
Vavic won 16 national titles at U.S.C., more than any coach in university history (10 in men’s water polo, the most recent coming in December, and six in women’s water polo). Hewas fired Tuesdayafter he was arrested in connection with the admissions scheme. He had coached the women’s team, currently ranked No. 1 and the defending national champion, since 1995 and had been the sole head coach of the men’s team since 1999. A 15-time national coach of the year, Vavic was named the Pac-12 Conference’s “coach of the century” for water polo in 2015.
According to the indictment, the co-conspirators in the admissions fraud paid $250,000 to an account that financed the U.S.C. water polo program, and in return Vavic recommended two students as recruits to the water polo team. The ringleader of the scheme, William Singer, known as Rick, is said to have paid the private school tuition for Vavic’s children through one of his company’s charitable accounts “under the guise of a fabricated scholarship.”
Former Georgetown tennis coach
According to the indictment, Ernst, known as Gordie, earned more than $2.7 million between 2012 and 2018 in payments that were falsely labeled “consulting” fees. He “designated at least 12 applicants as recruits” for Georgetown’s tennis teams, court papers said, “including some who did not play competitively.” One such player, listed in the complaint, was encouraged to make playing tennis part of her application essay and claimed to be a top-50-ranking player in the U.S.T.A. for junior girls, which was not true. She was accepted at Georgetown in 2016.
A spokeswoman for Georgetown said Tuesday that the university had fired Ernst in December 2017 after an internal investigation found he had violated university rules concerning admissions. Ernst, a native of Rhode Island who is in the New England Sports Hall of Fame, was named the women’s tennis coach at the University of Rhode Island last August. The university placed himon administrative leaveon Tuesday.
Wake Forest volleyball coach
Ferguson has been the women’s volleyball coach at Wake Forest since 2016. Before that, he coached the men’s team at U.S.C., winning 150 matches and leading the Trojans to three N.C.A.A. Final Fours. He was the American Volleyball Coaches Association coach of the year in 2009 and 2012. His success has not continued at Wake Forest, where he was 22-41 in his first two seasons. After Tuesday’s charges were unsealed, Wake Forest announced that he has been placed on administrative leave. Ferguson is accused of accepting $100,000 from Singer in 2017 to help Singer’s client’s daughter, who had been wait-listed by the school, gain admittance to Wake Forest as a volleyball recruit.
U.C.L.A. men’s soccer coach
Salcedo has been U.C.L.A.’s men’s soccer coach since 2004. The Bruins are one of the nation’s top programs annually, and Salcedo has produced dozens of players who have gone on to play professional soccer. A former All-American at U.C.L.A. who had a brief career in Major League Soccer and other leagues, he has been a member of the Bruins’ soccer program as either a player, assistant coach or head coach for two decades. He is accused of helping two students gain admission to U.C.L.A. as student-athletes in exchange for $200,000.The Los Angeles Timesandothersreported that he had been placed on leave Tuesday.
Former U.S.C. women’s soccer coaches
Khosroshahin won a national championship in his first season with the Trojans in 2007, when he was named national coach of the year, but he was fired in 2013 after missing the N.C.A.A. tournament three years in a row. U.S.C. went 8-10-2 in his final season; he was 82-53-15 over all.
Janke joined Khosroshahin’s U.S.C. coaching staff as an assistant after playing for him in his previous job at Cal State-Fullerton. A biography of her at the Geffen Academy, a private school in Los Angeles for students in grades 6 through 12, lists her asthe physical education department chair. A previous announcement hailed her hiring as the head of the school’sgirls soccer program.
In the indictment, Singer is said to have contributed $350,000 a private soccer club run by Khosroshahin and Janke in exchange for their suggesting four children of Singer’s clients as recruits.
Khosroshahin and Janke were also asked to create misleading recruiting profiles and to serve as references for students who were not competitive soccer players in order to help them gain admission to other colleges.
Former Yale women’s soccer coach
A third cooperating witness in court papers was an unnamed person whose description closely matches Meredith, who served as Yale’s women’s soccer coach from 1995 through late last year. Meredith was also a participant in the scheme, according to court filings. Meredithresignedas Yale’s coach in November after a disappointing season, but also after, the authorities said Tuesday, he had accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars of payments to facilitate the admission of a non-soccer-playing soccer recruit to Yale. When he stepped down after last season, Meredith told the university that “it is time to explore new possibilities andbegin a different chapter in my life.” A month later, he was elected tothe Connecticut Soccer Hall of Fame.
Stanford sailing coach
Vandemoer is accused of taking financial contributions to hischampionship-winning sailing programfrom an intermediary in exchange for agreeing to recommend two prospective students for admission. “Neither student came to Stanford,”Stanford said in a statementTuesday. “However, the alleged behavior runs completely counter to Stanford’s values.” Stanford said Vandemoer had been fired.
Texas men’s tennis coach
The Longhorns have one of the top programs in the country, having reached the N.C.A.A. tournament every season since Center took over in 2000. He was placed on administrative leave Tuesday after being accused of accepting $100,000 from Singer in 2015 in exchange for recruiting a student who was not a competitive tennis player. According to court papers, the student’s application to Texas said he played one year of tennis as a freshman, but his other activities included being manager of his high school basketball and football teams. The student withdrew from the tennis team shortly after beginning classes at Texas.
An earlier version of this article misstated William Ferguson's position at U.S.C. He was the men's volleyball coach, not the women's volleyball coach.
Marc Tracy has covered college sports for The Times since 2014. Previously he worked at Tablet Magazine and The New Republic.@marcatracy
Supported by
On Tennis
ByChristopher Clarey
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — No matter how smooth and imperious Roger Federer looked in the Miami Open final, whipping winners seemingly on demand and breaking big John Isner’s serve on four occasions, Federer knows all too well how fragile this all is as the shadows lengthen.
There can be no doubt that Federer is back near top gear at 37. He is moving like a man 10 years younger and has a sparkling 18-2 record this season. After his 6-1, 6-4 victory on Sunday, he is the first man or woman to win more than one singles title in 2019.
“Kind of fitting,” Isner said of Federer ending that unprecedented streak of 33 different singles champions. “One of our game’s greats.”
Perhaps the greatest, though it remains so tough to compare apples to apples and Federers to Lavers. Comparing eras is seemingly as foolish an errand as writing definitive lists until Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic are all done winning, too.
But Federer’s enduring excellence is an evermore elegant and persuasive argument, even if the reminders of how challenging it is for tennis champions to endure and prosper were right there in front of him again on Sunday.
There was his opponent, the defending champion Isner, 33, suddenly hobbling between points in the second set with a left foot injury that Isner fears could be a stress fracture.
“I have never had anything like this before,” said Isner, who began feeling the pain late in the first set.
And when it very soon came time for Federer to accept his fourth Miami Open singles trophy, one of the officials whose hands he shook was the tournament director James Blake, one of his former tour rivals who is now 39 and long retired.
“Roger, I don’t know what else to say,” Blake said after Federer’s 101st tour singles title. “It just makes me feel like such an underachiever.”
Nearly all the stars of Federer’s tennis generation have moved on to other roles: Tommy Haas, one of Federer’s closer friends, is now the tournament director at Indian Wells.
Federer made his debut in Miami in 1999 and is the only man who participated that year who is still playing singles.
“It’s been a superlong journey for me here,” Federer said. “I got a wild card here in ’99 and made my first final here in 2002 against Andre Agassi.”
He went on to win the title in 2005, 2006 and again in 2017, the year when he roared back to the top after recovering from knee surgery.
That could have been his last hurrah, but the hurrahs keep coming with titles at Dubai and Miami in 2019 and a very close call at Indian Wells, where he was beaten in three tight sets by Dominic Thiem in the final.
But Federer bounced back convincingly in a familiar tournament in an unfamiliar place: Hard Rock Stadium, the Open’s new, much more capacious home after 31 years in the more intimate, boutique setting of Key Biscayne.
In 2018, when the event was still on an island instead of in an N.F.L. stadium, Federer lost in his opening round to Thanasi Kokkinakis. Though Federer had another scare in the same round this year against the qualifier Radu Albot, he rallied to win in three sets and then gathered nothing but momentum, winning five straight matches in straight sets.
“It’s easy just to say, ‘Well last year didn’t work out, so I won’t come back this year, and as I’m playing the clay, maybe add rather another clay-court event,’ ” Federer said. “But I felt like let’s extend the hardcourt season. Let’s see the new venue. To be honest, I think that was something also I was excited to see. I did feel like the game was there last year, and I thought also the game was definitely here this year even after the Australian Open. So I’m happy with the team, we took the right decision.”
The team has also agreed that Federer will play on clay for the first time since brief, unfulfilling visits to Monte Carlo and Rome in 2016. His next tournament: Madrid in early May, which will give him time to reboot and reacquaint himself with the game’s grittiest surface.
How confident is he?
“Not very confident,” he said. “I don’t even remember how to slide anymore. You know, I’m taking baby steps at this point.”
It is smart, as ever, to try to underpromise and overdeliver, particularly when you are entering the kingdom of Nadal, the 11-time French Open champion and most successful men’s clay-court player in history.
But Federer, despite his fourth-round loss to Stefanos Tsitsipas at the Australian Open, has certainly had another hardcourt run to savor in 2019.
He looked thoroughly in his element on Sunday, just as Isner feared and expected he would.
“I knew he was going to play well today; I knew he was seeing the ball very big,” Isner said. “Certainly that was the case. I wasn’t up to the task in the first set, that’s for sure.”
Before the final, Federer compared the experience of facing Isner’s serve to that of a soccer goalkeeper facing a penalty kick.
If you embrace that metaphor, he made a very quick save, breaking Isner in the opening game, blunting the power with sliced returns on the stretch and then hooking passing shots that even the 6-foot-10 Isner struggled to reach.
Federer rolled through his own service games in a hurry. He won all 20 of his first-serve points in the match and dropped only three points on his second serve.
Isner, who had not faced Federer in an official match since 2015, would have needed to be very near the top of his game to stop this train or even get into one of his beloved tiebreakers.
But he was far from his peak and eventually in great discomfort, limping down the stretch after an injury timeout late in the second set and later wincing and limping off the dais in the interview room.
“You hope it’s nothing serious, and I hope he’s fine,” said Federer, who said experience helped him remain focused as Isner struggled. “But it’s tricky, no doubt.”
Tricky indeed to remain hale and hearty year after year in a Darwinian individual sport; even trickier to keep holding up trophies year after year with younger men swinging full force across the net.

Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
Another season of Grand Slam tennis begins at the Australian Open on Monday, but Agnieszka Radwanska, who retired in November, won’t be part of it.
Aptly called “The Ninja” for her ability to inflict out-of-nowhere pain on the opposition from all manner of contortionist positions, Radwanska’s spectacular, poker-faced shotmaking will be missed.
But even without its Ninja, the women’s game is in a memorable phase when it comes to entertainment value and players with an uncommon touch.
At the moment and probably not for long, the tour is a clash of generations with Serena Williams, 37, and Venus Williams, 38, still in the mix along with midcareer champions like Angelique Kerber, 30, and Caroline Wozniacki, 28, and the new wave led by Naomi Osaka, 21, the Japanese sensation who upset Serena Williams to win the United States Open last year. It is rare to see such a range of players clashing with the outcomes so uncertain.
The tour has geographical breadth with players from the United States, Europe, Asia and Australia all in the top 20 and with Ons Jabeur, 24, of Tunisia in the top 60 after last year, becoming the first Arab woman to reach a WTA final.
But there is another strong and too often undervalued selling point: stylistic variety. Though serious baseline power remains the most popular and fail-safe route to stardom, players with subtler, more creative games are also finding a way to win consistently, just as Radwanska, a former world No. 2 and Wimbledon finalist, did before her injuries.
Several of these tennis “artists” will be seeded at the Australian Open: No. 10 Daria Kasatkina of Russia, No. 13 Anastasija Sevastova of Latvia, No. 15 Ashleigh Barty of Australia, and No. 28 Hsieh Su-wei of Taiwan, a 33-year-old whose double-handed, frequently off-speed strokes are as crafty as they come. There is also Jabeur, still an outsider but whose game is a crowd-pleasing mix of baseline punch, feathery touch and Federer-esque flourishes.
“There will always be exceptions to the power players,” said Paul McNamee, the former Australian men’s star who advises Hsieh. “The players you refer to, however, all have one thing in common: exceptional hands. They have amazing touch, and this is why they can survive even if they have less raw power.”
That hardly means they have none. Barty, despite being 5-foot-5 and shorter than most of her rivals, generates the leg drive and racket-head speed to hit big serves and forehands. Her crisply sliced backhand has unusual bite, and she has perhaps the best net game in the sport.
“The plan to get to the net more often is a focus for 2019,” said Craig Tyzzer, her coach. “Ash certainly benefits from playing more doubles than most of the other singles girls, but her volley skills were certainly developed from an early age, which is a massive advantage.”
Kasatkina has a heavy topspin forehand that she can flatten out to create more pace when she requires it.
But what distinguishes the members of the WTA’s creative class from their peers is the size of their tool set and the range of their tactical options. Their success has meant more matchups that feature contrasting styles: important to the appeal of a game where patterns have a tendency to repeat.
“Tennis is a game of chess, of tactics,” said Philippe Dehaes, Kasatkina’s coach, who has emerged as one of the tour’s leading mentors and motivators. “You have to vary zones and trajectories and find the answer suited to what your opponent is doing. To have women who play well tactically and who can keep the ball in play, while varying and creating, makes the show much more interesting for people, in my opinion.”
It is not the contrast that tennis once regularly offered. When Martina Navratilova was attacking the net in the 1970s and 1980s against her baseline-hugging archrival Chris Evert and others, the gulf between styles and tennis philosophies was much wider.
“When you had serve-and-volleyers going against baseliners, that was more of a complete and obvious contrast,” said Tracy Austin, the precocious champion who faced Navratilova frequently. “But in this day and age where the game has become homogenized, we’re looking for any contrast. It’s not as extreme as it used to be, but that’s why Hsieh Su-wei is fun to watch, because you feel like you can see the wheels turning in her mind as to where to place the ball, the geometry of the court. So many players use left and right, and she uses north and south as well.”
Hsieh is constantly changing depth: shifting her target from the backcourt to the forecourt as she mixes in drop shots, angled volleys and sliced and flat groundstrokes.
“Her hands can redirect a shot in either direction on both wings with pinpoint accuracy,” McNamee said. “That’s not normal.”
But outlier fast-twitch defensive skills are required to thrive in an era of abundant power and athleticism, of taller, stronger opposition with superior leverage like Petra Kvitova, Garbine Muguruza, Karolina Pliskova, Madison Keys and the ascendant Aryna Sabalenka.
“I try to do something else than the normal,” said Sevastova, a U.S. Open semifinalist last year whose trademark is the drop shot. “I think it’s important, and it’s my style. It’s not like I don’t have power. I just don’t have that much. But I can handle their pace and hit the ball quickly, and I like variety.”
Dehaes sees more women being able to survive the onslaught.
“I think that has always been the case, but in the last few years we saw it a bit less,” he said. “I think the equipment played a big role, and there was the evolution of women’s tennis with players becoming stronger physically and better technically. Because everyone trains a lot and everyone trains well, which was not always the case in former times. So with more athletic players and more high-performance equipment, the pace of the game accelerated. But I think now the girls are getting used to it and are more able to counter the games of these super-powerful players.”
Tennis’s recent honor roll confirms that. Three of the four Grand Slam singles titles last year went to counterpunchers: the No. 1 player, Simona Halep, and Kerber and Wozniacki, all of whom have long had speed and defensive skills, but who also have focused on improving their serves and learning to embrace risk selectively.
“Honestly, it could be just 15 percent more aggression that can make the difference,” Austin said. “You are just robbing your opponent of a little bit of time on certain shots.”
Martin Blackman, general manager of player development at the United States Tennis Association, says he believes that “we will see more and more complete players on the women’s side.”
Purer power players are also trying to broaden their range. In her late teens, Osaka clearly had potent groundstrokes and a penetrating serve. But she did not make the leap to Grand Slam champion until she lost weight in 2018 and improved her explosive movement, agility and defensive skills with help from her new coach, Sascha Bajin, and her fitness coach, Abdul Sillah.
“She’s pulled back some; Sascha’s got her thinking more on the court rather than just see ball, hit ball,” Austin said. “Now, she’s fit enough and aware enough and realizes, ‘O.K., this is a red-light ball. I have to get the point back to neutral.’ Or ‘this is a green-light ball, and I can go big.’”
The artists are also at work on finding the time to use their brushes.
“My challenge with Dasha,” said Dehaes, using Kasatkina’s nickname, “is to help her find a way to stay in the rally even under great pressure, and at a certain moment, the right moment, make the difference with a variation. But it’s not easy to vary when you play someone like Sabalenka, who hits every ball very hard from everywhere without much theory. It’s very hard to counter this kind of woman.”
Perhaps impossible when a true power player is on target.
“If you have Serena and she’s at the top of her game, I still say that power is always going to win,” Austin said. “I don’t know if Sabalenka is 10 to 15 percent away from that top level or maybe just two weeks away, but when she’s all cylinders firing, I still think she’s going to take out the Kasatkinas, the Sevastovas, the Bartys. But let me tell you. If you’re off a little bit and your timing is messed up a little bit by those combinations — topspin, slice, short, deep — it’s a whole new ballgame.”
Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MELBOURNE, Australia — Still struggling with a hip injury that has limited him since June 2016, Andy Murray announced Friday that he would retire after this year’s Wimbledon — if not sooner.
Murray said that his decision to end his playing career this year had come during his off-season training in December.
“I spoke to my team, and I told them, ‘I cannot keep doing this,’” Murray said in an emotional news conference in Melbourne. “I needed to have an end point because I was sort of playing with no idea when the pain was going to stop. I felt like making that decision.
“I said to my team, ‘Look, I think I can get through this until Wimbledon.’ That’s where I would like to stop playing. But I am also not certain I am able to do that.”
Murray, 31, became the first British male singles champion at a Grand Slam tournament in 76 years when he won the United States Open in 2012. He won Wimbledon in 2013 and 2016 and won Olympic gold medals in singles in 2012 and 2016. Murray reached the ATP’s No. 1 ranking for the first time at the end of the 2016 season, holding on to it through Wimbledon the next year.
A counterpuncher who wears down opponents through his elite physicality and guile, Murray earned a reputation as one of the hardest-working players of his generation. He is popular among his peers for an off-court affability that provided a striking contrast from his often ornery on-court demeanor. Murray was particularly admired by many in women’s tennis for his vocal support of their tour andhis decision to hire Amélie Mauresmoas his coach in 2014.
Andrea Petkovic said that she had been an admirer of Murray “even before he kind of became WTA’s darling.”
“He was always my favorite, and I think it will be a huge loss for tennis in general, but also for the WTA,” Petkovic added. “Because even nowadays, when you think everything is equal, you still need men, especially successful men, to speak up for women.”
Though often in the shadow of the others in the Big Four of men’s tennis — Novak Djokovic, Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal — Murray is considered by many the greatest sportsman in Scottish history. He was knighted at 29.
Just two years later, with a ranking of 230 after the injury layoff, Murray accepted his mortality in the sport. The weight of the decision was obvious in his news conference on Friday, when he broke down after the opening question: “How are you feeling, and how is the hip injury?”
“Yeah, not great,” Murray said, his voice quavering. He then sighed and let his emotions flood in, and left the interview room for about three minutes to compose himself.
“Yeah, not feeling good,” he said when he returned. “Obviously, I’ve been struggling for a long time. I have been in a lot of pain. Well, it’s been probably about 20 months now.
“I have pretty much done everything that I could to try and get my hip feeling better, and it hasn’t helped loads. I’m in a better place than I was six months ago but still in a lot of pain. Yeah, it has been tough.”
Murray said he still planned to play at the Australian Open, where he is a five-time runner-up. His first match will be Monday against 22nd-seeded Roberto Bautista Agut.
Murray’s outlook in Melbourne looked bleak even before his announcement. In a practice match Thursday, Murray was thrashed by his longtime rival Djokovic, who led 6-1, 4-1, before their time slot on the court ended.
“I can still play to a level — not a level that I’m happy playing at,” Murray said on Friday. “It’s not just that: The pain is too much, really. I don’t want to continue playing that way. I think I have tried pretty much everything I could to get it right, and that hasn’t worked.”
Murrayhad hip surgery last January, and he said he had seen his Melbourne-based surgeon on Thursday. He said that although the operation had helped, it had not alleviated his pain, which he said had been the “driving factor” in his decision.
“I can play with limitations, that’s not an issue,” Murray said. “It’s having the limitations, and also the pain is not allowing me to enjoy competing, training or any of the stuff I love about tennis.”
Asked if the Australian Open could be his last tournament, Murray paused and wiped away tears again.
“There’s a chance of that, for sure,” he said. “Yeah, like I said, I am not sure I am able to play through the pain for another four or five months.”
Murray said that his injury had also taken an emotional toll.
“I have talked a lot, way too much, about my hip for 18 months,” Murray said. “It’s a daily thing. It isn’t just people I work with that ask me; it’s everyone. So everyone I bump into, that is all I talk about it. It’s pretty draining.”
Murray said that he had spoken “not loads, but a number of times” with psychologists about his injury.
“But nothing helps because you are in lots, lots and lots of pain,” he added. “You cannot do what it is that you want to do, and you love doing. Or I can do it, but it’s not fun or enjoyable doing it anymore.
“That is what I have done. I have tried to deal with it, talked about it, but none of that makes my hip feel better, unfortunately. I wish it did, because if it did, it would be feeling brilliant right now. But it doesn’t.”


Supported by
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — It started as a curiosity, believed to be the tallest match in tennis’s Grand Slam history.
And yet by the end of a nearly three-hour slugfest on the Australian Open’s opening day on Monday, fans left less impressed by all of the long-limbed height than by the guts of the surprising victor: the virtually unknown Reilly Opelka — 21, American, 7 feet tall in socks — who doled out an eye-popping upset by defeating his ninth-seeded compatriot John Isner, 33, who stands a looming 6 feet 10 inches.
Tennis players in the modern era trend taller than the players of yesteryear, even compared to those of 15 and 20 years ago. But not this much taller. In a sport where the best male players still typically hover around 6 feet (top-ranked Novak Djokovic is listed at 6-2), not only do Isner and Opelka seem like human skyscrapers, they come to the court for each match with the simplest game plan possible: Crush serves, slam forehands and hide their considerable deficiencies in movement by keeping every point whiplash short.
Staring across the net at Isner, Opelka said after the match, was like looking in the mirror, and not just because of his opponent’s height.
“There’s just a lot of things that are out of your control,” he said, speaking of the distress that comes from playing one of the few who can hit just as hard as he can, and from such high, imposing angles. “I was expecting that today I probably wouldn’t touch too many balls. I was hoping the same for him.”
Official match statistics back Opelka up. He did not touch many balls. The average rally lasted two shots. On only four points were at least nine balls struck. Isner slammed 47 aces. Opelka slammed 40, the last a 141-mile-per-hour fastball that Isner barely moved for.
The final score underscored how little separated the pair. Opelka, ranked No. 97, won, 7-6 (4), 7-6 (6), 6-7 (4), 7-6 (5).
When it was over, Isner could barely hide the disappointment. He rarely made eye contact during the postmatch news conference. At times, his hands shook with tension.
He has long been ranked in the top 20 on the ATP Tour. Last season was his best. He won his first World Tour Masters 1000 at the Miami Open, made the semifinals at Wimbledon and, as one of the top players of the year, appeared in the elite tour finals in London.
But last season also started poorly, punctuated with a loss that was in some ways similar to the one against Opelka: a first-round defeat at the Australian Open at the hands of a little known, albeit much smaller opponent, Matthew Ebden, an Australian who stands a tour-typical 6-2.
Isner vowed to lean on the fact that he had begun last season in such bad shape — not only being upset in Melbourne but posting an early record of two wins and six losses — before breaking through and winning Miami.
“I was off and running from there,” he said. “Just got to get one under my belt and see what happens.”
Though hardly one for long answers, Opelka appeared relaxed and casual as he spoke in the wake of the most significant victory of his young career. He spoke of the main difference between him and Isner. In the early stages of his career, Opelka, who is listed as 6-11 but has acknowledged that he is even taller, does not have a deeply successful professional past to hark back to.
Hence, even after Monday, his primary motive remains clear: Keep playing well enough that he never again has to compete in tennis’s often brutal minor leagues, where he won two titles at the end of last season to break into the top 100.
“That,” he said, “is the immediate goal.”
More than making a long run in Melbourne?
Yes, he replied, saying he could only allow himself to think of his next match, against Thomas Fabbiano, an Italian who is ranked No. 102 and, compared to Isner, is a relative munchkin.
“One guy is 5-10,” Opelka said, referring to Fabbiano. “The other guy,” he added, referring to Isner not by name but with a pregnant pause, “is not.”



Supported by
ByNaila-Jean Meyers
On March 2 in Dubai, Roger Federer joined Jimmy Connors as the only male tennis players in the open erawith 100 career titles. With a victory on Sunday over John Isner in thefinal of the Miami Open, Federer, 37, is now eight titles behind Connors’s record of 109.
Here’s a look at Federer’s 101 titles.
The date Federer won his first career title, at age 19, in Milan, defeating Julien Boutter of France, 6-4, 6-7 (7), 6-4. Federer was ranked 27th at the time, Boutter 67th. Boutter reached only two finals on the ATP Tour, winning one, and reached a career-high ranking of 46th. His last tour event was Wimbledon in 2004, a tournament Federer won. (The Milan tournament no longer exists.)
Number of Grand Slam titles — eight at Wimbledon, six at the Australian Open, five at the United States Open and one at the French Open. His most recent came at the 2018 Australian Open.
The number of times he has won the tournaments in Halle, Germany, and his hometown, Basel, Switzerland — his most of any events.
Number of titles on hard courts, most of any surface. (Hard courts are the most common surface on tour.) He has won 18 tournaments on grass and 11 on clay. His first title, in Milan, is one of only two on indoor carpet.
Most titles in one year, in 2006. The first came against Gaël Monfils in Doha, Qatar, in January; the last against James Blake at the Masters Cup, the former name of the year-end finals, in Shanghai in November.
The only year since 2001 in which Federer has not won a tournament. He sustained a knee injury in January and shut down his season in late July in order to fully recover.
Number of countries in which Federer has won a title, including Japan, Qatar, Sweden, Canada, Portugal, Turkey and the Netherlands.
Number of different opponents, from 25 different countries, who Federer defeated in finals — including Novak Djokovic, Jiri Novak, Philipp Kohlschreiber, Mark Philippoussis, Andre Agassi, Igor Andreev, David Nalbandian and Nikolay Davydenko. Twenty-five of those opponents are now retired, according to the ATP.
Number of times he has beaten Rafael Nadal in a final, most of any opponent. Who’s No. 2? Andy Roddick, with seven.
Number of times he won a tournament final in straight sets.
Length of his shortest title-clinching win, a 6-2 6-2 victory over David Goffin in Basel in 2014.
Length of his longest title-clinching win,a 5-7, 7-6 (6), 7-6 (5), 3-6, 16-14 victoryover Roddick in the 2009 Wimbledon final. The victory gave Federer his 15th major title, breaking Pete Sampras’s record.
His lowest ranked opponent in a final, but it was a familiar name. On Oct. 2, 2005, Federer, then 24, defeated 18-year-old Andy Murray, 6-3 7-5, in the final of the Thailand Open in Bangkok. It was the first of 25 career meetings between the two, and the first ATP Tour final of Murray’s career.
Number of times Federer defeated Ivan Ljubicic in a tournament final. Ljubicic, 40, is now one of Federer’s coaches.
Number of times Federer has lost in a tournament final, missing a chance to add to his trophy case.
Ben Rothenberg contributed reporting.
Supported by
On Tennis
ByKaren Crouse
MELBOURNE, Australia — Time did not freeze, like a televised sporting event placed on pause, during the 13 months Serena Williams spent away from tennis. The absence of Williams, who has averaged one title in every three majors played, allowed younger players to wade deeper into the draws and grow their games and their confidence.
Karolina Pliskova, 26, was already on the rise when a pregnant Williams took her leave from tennis after winning the 2017 Australian Open. The previous year, Pliskova had graced the final of the United States Open, beating Williams on the way. But it was the only Grand Slam event where she advanced past the third round in 2016.
With Williams out of the picture from February 2017 to March 2018, the ascent of Pliskova continued apace. Advancing to the quarterfinals or better in 15 of 20 tournaments in 2017, Pliskova assumed the women’s world No. 1 ranking that July, two months after Williams’s last stay there.
In the eight majors contested since Williams’s last Grand Slam title, at the 2017 Australian Open, Pliskova has made it to the quarterfinals or better in five. Withher 6-4, 4-6, 7-5 defeat of Williamson Wednesday in the quarterfinals of the Australian Open on Wednesday, Pliskova avengeda two-set quarterfinal lossto Williams at last year’s U.S. Open.
The way Pliskova pulled out the victory was telling; she played the big points as fearlessly as Williams, 37, once did. Down by 1-5 in the third set, Pliskova won six consecutive games and staved off four match points by swinging for the lines and serving to dime-sized spots. She did to Williams what Williams did to Kim Clijsters in the 2003 semifinals here. In that match, Williams staved off two match points while climbing back from a 1-5 deficit, then beat her sister, Venus, in the final to hold all four major titles concurrently.
That Williams had an aura that sometimes all but overshadowed her. The Williams standing across the net from Pliskova hasn’t appreciably changed. In spotting the rest of the women’s game a full year, she simply gave everybody else a chance to catch up to her level of intensity and fight.
“This time I just feel somehow different and more confident,” Pliskova said. “I’m not doubting myself.”
Williams held her first match point while serving at 5-1 in the third. She was called a foot fault on her first serve. Then at the end of the point she turned her left ankle after Pliskova wrong-footed her. Williams never called for a trainer to treat her ankle.
“At that point I didn’t feel like I needed it or I didn’t feel like it would be a big deal,” Williams explained.
There was a good reason she felt that way. Many times over the years, less than Williams’s best was good enough.
But that no longer is the case.
Williams’s serve has always been the weapon she can lean on when all else fails. On Wednesday, Williams didn’t win another point on her serve after turning her ankle.
Williams said of Pliskova: “I think she just kind of started playing really, really good. I don’t think it had anything to do with my ankle per se.”
Williams was right. Did her level of play drop in the last six games? Yes. But to focus on that is to miss the bigger picture. Williams lost because during the year that she spent growing a child instead of a game, Pliskova and the other top players got better.
If Williams is to resume her winning ways, she will have to play better than she did in 2017, when she vanquished Venus here for her 23rd major title.
It is not impossible. Williams’s mission, if she chooses to accept it, is to forget the past and resolutely move forward, one honest day’s work at a time. The good news for tennis is that she seems committed to the chase of Margaret Court and her record 24 major singles titles.
This was Williams’s eighth official tournament since her return from a difficult pregnancy. The golfer Tiger Woods, with whom Williams is friendly, won the Tour Championship in his 18th official start after his return from back surgery. As long as Williams is patient, she can once again prosper.
Speaking earlier in the week, Williams’s coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, said it was unrealistic to expect Williams to hit the tour winning after the birth of her daughter, Alexis Olympia Ohanian Jr. She won no titles last year, but reached the final at Wimbledon and the United States Open, losing to opponents whose masterly performances kept her off balance.
“You cannot buy time,” he said. “Things take time. To get back to shape, back in shape after a baby, a few months are not enough. I mean, still she could have won because she’s doing things other people don’t, but it was — I mean, the story said it was too early. That’s it.”
Williams didn’t win six majors before her 22nd birthday because she was a patient person. But motherhood is a daily practice in living in the moment, and Williams is nothing if not a diligent student. Earlier in the tournament, she said her year off “gave me a new fire, a new purpose, a new meaning.”
It did the same for her opponents, which is why the women’s game is infinitely more interesting now that Williams is back.


Supported by
On Tennis
ByKaren Crouse
MELBOURNE, Australia — The first tennis player to capture Novak Djokovic’s imagination was a big-serving American with a beautiful one-handed backhand. A grade-school-aged Djokovic, living in the Serbian mountain resort town of Kopaonik, watched on television as Pete Sampras won one of his seven Wimbledon titles, and he fell madly in love with tennis.
“I did not have a tennis tradition in my family,” Djokovic said, adding, “To me it was definitely a sign of destiny to start playing tennis, to aspire to be as good as Pete.”
Djokovic tried to emulate Sampras’s game, right down to the one-handed backhand, before his first coach, Jelena Gencic, encouraged him to switch to both hands because that was his natural stroke. But on other things, Djokovic refused to budge.
Most significantly, Djokovic never abandoned the belief that he would grow up to be the best men’s player in the world, like Sampras, who held the year-end No. 1 ranking for a men’s record six years beginning in 1993, when a 6-year-old Djokovic began playing tennis in earnest.
On Sunday at the Australian Open, Djokovic finally and decisively slipped the surly bonds of Sampras. With his 6-3, 6-2, 6-3 defeat of Rafael Nadal, Djokovic secured his 15th Grand Slam singles title, breaking his tie with Sampras. Djokovic took sole possession of third on the list, behind his contemporaries Roger Federer (20) and Nadal (17).
When Sampras retired in 2002, he held the record for men’s Grand Slam titles. Unlike Djokovic, who has peers to push him, Sampras spent his career in a mostly lonely pursuit of a long-retired player, Roy Emerson, who collected 12 major championships, including a men’s record six Australian Open titles.
Emerson, 82, attended Sunday’s final at Rod Laver Arena, and, like the 47-year-old Sampras, he had a target on his back. Djokovic’s title was his seventh at Melbourne Park. When he met up with Emerson after the trophy presentation, Djokovic said, smiling, that “Mr. Emerson” was mad at him for breaking his record.
The careers of Djokovic and Sampras never intersected — Djokovic turned pro the year after Sampras retired — but their paths crossed in Los Angeles in 2013 when they played together (and lost) in an exhibition doubles match at U.C.L.A. against Bob and Mike Bryan.
At the time, Djokovic described it as “a blast” to share the court with Sampras and said he had always hoped to play a match with or against him. Two months before the exhibition, Djokovic had collected his sixth Grand Slam title with his fourth Australian Open crown. But it wasn’t considered a given that he would one day share a piece of Grand Slam history with Sampras, much less move past him.
“To surpass him with Grand Slam titles, I’m speechless,” Djokovic said Sunday. “I haven’t had too much time to contemplate on everything that has happened, but I’m planning to do that.”
In 2014, Sampras returned to the Australian Open as a spectator, and while there, he sat for a news conference in which he fielded a question about the aging process for champion athletes.
Sampras was 31, the same age that Djokovic is now, when he retired. The grind of the tour, especially the extensive travel, eroded his motivation, Sampras said.
“As you get older, it just gets tougher,” Sampras said then. “It gets tougher to play. It gets tougher to travel. Sometimes it gets a little stale.”
He added: “I just know from my perspective, I was fatigued the last couple years. I was enjoying my tennis, but it was a tough job.”
Djokovic understands what Sampras meant. He traveled here without his wife and two small children. During the trophy presentation, Djokovic thanked his loved ones in absentia for their forbearance. He expressed gratitude for all the sacrifices they made so that he could maintain what he described as a selfish existence. He said that it was hard to be apart from his family for weeks on end.
“Hunger is always there,” Djokovic said, “but nowadays it’s just more relevant for me to organize myself in life better, to manage to be very concise and concrete with what I do and what I plan to do, because I am a father and a husband. Right now it’s not only about tennis.”
After his fourth-round exit here last year, Djokovic had surgery on his elbow, and that was tough, too, he said. He acknowledged having doubts about whether he could regain his championship form.
That sounds ludicrous now, with Djokovic in current possession of three of the four major trophies and needing only a French Open victory to complete a Novak Slam.
After passing Sampras, Djokovic has no plans to slow down. Many players, Djokovic was told, believe that he can surpass Federer on the major victory list.
“How do you live with that?” a reporter asked.
Djokovic laughed. “How do I live with that?” he replied. “Just fine.”



Supported by
ByKaren Crouse
MELBOURNE, Australia — What better way to kick off Australia Day weekend than with a win-one, get-No. 1-free special at Melbourne Park?
That will be the holiday bargain on offer inside Rod Laver Arena on Saturday when Petra Kvitova and Naomi Osaka square off in the Australian Open women’s final for the Daphne Akhurst Memorial Cup and the top spot in the women’s world rankings.
Kvitova, a two-time Wimbledon titlist from the Czech Republic, advanced with a 7-6 (2), 6-0 defeat of the American Danielle Collins in the first of Thursday’s semifinals. Osaka, the reigning United States Open champion, engineered a 6-2, 4-6, 6-4 victory over Kvitova’s compatriot Karolina Pliskova, who described Osaka’s play as “unbelievable” and said, “There was not much that I could do.”
Osaka, 21, can become the first Japanese singles player, male or female, to hold the No. 1 ranking, a piece of history that seemed well beyond her grasp last year at this time when she entered the tournament ranked No. 72.
“Of course that’s a very big deal for me,” Osaka said, adding, “I’m just really happy that I’m in the position that I am now, and I’m not going to take it for granted.”
Kvitova, who rose as high as No. 2 in 2011, didn’t know that No. 1 was within her reach here. “I don’t really care, to be honest,” she said.
Pointing to her head, she added, “I don’t think there’s any room here to think about it.”
She feels especially blessed to be playing for another major title. This is her first Grand Slam final since she fought off a knife-wielding burglar in her Czech Republic apartment in 2016. She sustained nerve and tendon damage in all five fingers of her dominant left hand in the attack, requiring hours of surgery to repair and sidelining her from competition for five months.
“I didn’t know even if I was going to play tennis again,” Kvitova said, adding, “It wasn’t only physically but mentally was very tough, as well. It took me really long while to believe.”
Since returning for her self-described “second career” at the 2017 French Open, the 28-year-old Kvitova has won seven tournaments, including five last year.
The power game will be on display in this year’s women’s U. S. Open final when two of the hardest hitters in the game, Serena Williams and Naomi Osaka, square off. It will be the first Grand Slam final for Osaka who has burst onto the scene with one of the most powerful forehands in women’s tennis.
She started 2019 on a high note, prevailing in the tuneup event in Sydney. But for all her success, she had struggled in the majors; after winning Wimbledon for the second time in 2014, Kvitova didn’t advance to the semifinals in her next 16 Grand Slams. Her best showing was two quarterfinal appearances at the U.S. Open.
“For the mental side, it wasn’t really easy to kind of deal with that every time, coming to the Grand Slam and losing,” Kvitova said. “Maybe that’s why it’s probably more sweet.”
Osaka may be in her second consecutive major final, but she can remember when making it to the second week was a major victory. Before her breakthrough against Serena Williams last year in Flushing Meadows, Osaka lost in the third round of Grand Slams seven times and got as far as the fourth round only once.
“Man, for me it feels like it took awhile,” Osaka said. Laughing, she added, “Maybe my time goes slower than your time. But definitely I remember all the matches that I lost in the third round.”
Osaka used to become easily frustrated. The biggest change that her coach, Sascha Bajin, has noticed in this tournament is that she is controlling her emotions better when points don’t go her way.
“I just have to tell her grass is green, water flows and everything is all right sometimes,” Bajin said. “Over all, she’s very hard on herself. She has very high expectations. She wants to do well. She wants to get better.”
Kvitova was the same age that Osaka is now when she claimed her maiden Wimbledon crown, in 2011. Back then, her career stretched before her like a clear ribbon of highway. Sure, there were a few potholes, but nothing she couldn’t get past. Then came the attack in her apartment.
Kvitova said she found out only recently that in the early months of her recovery, her doctor wasn’t optimistic about her returning to competitive tennis.
“Luckily he didn’t tell me, like, during that period,” Kvitova said.
Last summer, Kvitova met Monica Seles, who arranged the introduction. “It was such a nice feeling to meet someone who kind of went through same things and thoughts and everything,” Kvitova said of Seles, who was stabbed by a spectator during a match in 1993.
Seles returned to competition, and won the Australian Open in 1996 for her ninth major championship.
“I didn’t know that, actually,” Kvitova said. “It’s nice then.”
Whatever happens Saturday, Kvitova feels as if she has already won. “To be honest, I think not very many people believe that I can do that again, to stand on the court and play tennis and kind of play on this level.”
An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of the woman for whom the Australian Open women’s singles trophy is named. She was Daphne Akhurst, not Akhurt.
Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weeklyAustralia Letter, start your day with your localMorning Briefingand join us in ourFacebook group.



Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MELBOURNE, Australia — After 170th-ranked Christopher Eubanks made it through the qualifying draw of a Grand Slam event for the first time last week, many of his friends from back in Atlanta began to grasp how far his career had come.
It was not because of the three qualifying matches he had won, but rather because of who joined him for a practice before the Australian Open began: Serena Williams.
“Some of my friends who don’t really know tennis were saying, ‘If he’s hitting with Serena, he must be pretty good,’ ” Eubanks said.
His session with her was part of a new strategy for Williams, who is training with some of the best current players from the men’s tour to raise the intensity of her practices. In addition to Eubanks, Williams has practiced this month withNo. 15 Stefanos Tsitsipas, No. 21 Grigor Dimitrov, No. 39 Frances Tiafoe and No. 88 Bernard Tomic.
Asked about her practices with such players, Williams said simply, “It was fun,” but her coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, was more loquacious.
“If she lifts her level on a daily basis that much, she’s going to improve incredibly,” he said.
The early returns from the strategy have been positive: Williams beat Eugenie Bouchard, 6-2, 6-2, in the second round on Thursday night, thwarting the resurgent Canadian with sharp, focused aggression. Williams was particularly strong on her return, winning 61 percent of points on Bouchard’s serve.
Mouratoglou said the shift to finding the best male opposition available was “a long-term plan,” not a temporary trend.
“I think that it’s very important in your practice to be challenged, because I think that she can become much better than what she is already,” Mouratoglou said. “But in order to become better, if you’re not challenged, you have no chance. I thought that to be challenged at practice was a good idea, so we tried once and we really loved it.”
That first try, Mouratoglou said, was with the Australian player Thanasi Kokkinakis last year at Mouratoglou’s academy in France.
“She said: ‘Wow, it was great, great rhythm, and it’s tough. It pushes me,’ ” Mouratoglou said. “I thought she played incredible.”
Kokkinakis, who had beaten Roger Federer earlier that spring at the Miami Open, shared that assessment, marveling at his inability to push Williams back from her position on the baseline even with his hardest, heaviest shots.
“She’s so, so strong on the ball,” he said. “When I thought I hit some good shots that even some male players might even struggle with, she took it on the rise, handled it pretty well.”
Williams has practiced with men throughout her career, usually employing a man as a full-time hitting partner. Most have been years removed from their active days on tour and had achieved modest rankings. Her longtime hitting partner Sascha Bajin peaked at 1149th; his successor, Robbye Poole, reached 414th; her current hitting partner, Jarmere Jenkins, reached a high of 190th.
Mouratoglou said that Jenkins was “still hitting the ball really well,” but that it was important to shake Williams out of her routine with him when possible.
“She basically knows where he’s going to hit in advance, because she hits with him every day, so there is no surprise,” Mouratoglou said. “She doesn’t feel that she’s challenged because she knows him too well. I think that counts a lot. And she controls him, in a way, because he’s her employee. Even unconsciously, she makes him play the way she wants to, even if she doesn’t try to.
“So it’s completely different relationship with a professional player, because she has to give him good rhythm, to give a good ball to him, too, so she can’t lose focus.”
Other top men and women have shared practice courts in the first month of the tennis season. Andy Murray and Naomi Osaka, for example, hit together for 30 minutes at a tournament in Brisbane, Australia.
Mouratoglou said that he emphasized to the men that they should not treat Williams differently from any other practice partner.
He said he told Eubanks, “Play for yourself — it’s your practice.”
Eubanks said the session with Williams helped him in his first-round loss Monday against 19th-seeded Nikoloz Basilashvili. Eubanks had set points to go up by two sets to one on a player ranked 150 spots ahead of him.
“Serena hits, in my opinion, one of the cleanest balls in the history of tennis,” Eubanks said. “I was working on absorbing pace, because she puts enough pace on it that you’re really working the legs. I’m being as professional as I can, because you’re on the court with Serena Williams. You don’t want her to think you can’t play.”
Eubanks said he felt the effects of Williams’s intensity and skill the rest of the day.
“I practiced again in the evening, and I told my coach I felt like I did a lift today, because my quads are so sore from just hitting with her for an hour,” he said.
After Williams’s victory over Bouchard, the on-court interviewer Jim Courier joked that she should charge the men she hits with for lessons. Indeed, many of Williams’s past practice partners have been thriving in Melbourne: Tsitsipas, Tiafoe and Alexei Popyrin have reached the third round at the Open for the first time.
“Just to hit with a legend, especially Serena, it really gave me a great, great experience,” Popyrin said after No. 7 Dominic Thiem retired from their second-round match Thursday. “She gave me some tips after the hit, so it was great.”
Tiafoe, whom Williams hit with several times while they were teammates at the Hopman Cup, had his best career victory on Wednesday when he beat fifth-seeded Kevin Anderson in the second round.
Tiafoe said he had difficulty handling Williams’s zipping shots, as he was more used to the spinning shots male players tend to use.
“I was struggling,” Tiafoe said of hitting with Williams. “She hits the ball so hard. The courts are fast; it was skidding. I mean, a little topspin, maybe? I’m not used to the ball coming in that flat. That was something I really had to adjust to.”
Mouratoglou said no man had turned down an offer to hit with Williams.
“And I don’t think any will say no,” he said. “It’s a great experience for them, too, and I think they’re curious how Serena is hitting, for real.”
For Eubanks, Williams’s story had particular resonance. His father coached him in Atlanta following many of the tactics and philosophies of Serena’s father, Richard Williams.
“Being able to see somebody who comes from humble beginnings, somebody who has dealt with adversity her entire life, seeing someone who comes from an unconventional tennis background, it shows it can be done,” he said.
“I’ve gotten to the point now where I don’t really get star-struck when I see people,” he added. “I’ve practiced with Fed a couple times. I’ve seen Novak, seen Rafa. You see them and understand that they’re people. But Serena, there’s something about her that’s almost larger than life. So when I got out there and she said my name, it took me back to as if I was a little kid: ‘Man, Serena Williams knows my name!’ ”


Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — After another day of big serves and topspin forehands in the desert sunshine, just about everyone appeared to get what they wanted: a 39th match between Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal.
The question is, will it actually happen?
Federer, despite being the elder at 37, looks readier to rumble. Between Dubai and Indian Wells, he has won nine straight matches and 15 straight sets and artfully and uneventfully dispatched the unseeded Hubert Hurkacz, 6-4, 6-4, in Friday’s first quarterfinal of the BNP Paribas Open.
But Nadal had to dig much deeper to wriggle free of the firm grip and aggressive game of Karen Khachanov, the brawny young Russian who pushed him hard in the third round of last year’s United States Open.
This time, Nadal prevailed, 7-6 (2), 7-6 (2), but only after Khachanov stretched him repeatedly with huge serves and whipping forehands and only after Nadal needed on-court treatment and tape for pain in his long-troublesome right knee.
And there lies the problem with planning your day or, depending on the time zone, your night around watching No. 39.
Nadal remains one of the greatest, in-the-moment competitors in any sport, but his recent record in hardcourt tournaments is a downbeat litany of withdrawals, retirements and anticlimaxes.
It remains an open question if he will feel hearty enough to play Saturday afternoon’s semifinal. He does not have a day off to recover. He also has the rest of the 2019 season to consider, including his sacrosanct season within a season on clay that is scheduled to start next month in Monte Carlo.
“Of course my goal and my idea is to be ready for tomorrow,” Nadal said after pursing his lips and shaking his head.
But he also knows from long experience with patellar tendinitis that being ready is no sure thing.
“I cannot guarantee how I will feel when I wake up tomorrow,” he said. “But the desire to play a match like this against Federer is always very special, and it’s even more special if we’re both at a high level and at 100 percent. Hopefully it will be that way, above all for me but also for the fans on site and for fans in general. I hope I will be able to play aggressively. I need to be ready to react very quickly and to have everything in place to be able to succeed. If not, it will be very difficult.”
Nadal and Federer first played in Miami in 2004, but they have not met since October 2017, when Federer beat Nadal in the final of the Shanghai Masters. Federer went 5-0 against Nadal in 2017, a resurgent season for both men, after upgrading his ability to attack with his single-handed backhand.
That run of success has narrowed the big edge that Nadal once held in their rivalry; he now leads by 23-15.
“I don’t think those five matches matter that much, to be honest,” Federer said of the 2017 victories. “A lot of time has gone by, unfortunately maybe for the rivalry for us, or for me. It’s always better to keep on maybe playing against him.”
Federer started this season by failing to retain his title at the Australian Open but has responded by going on a roll. After winning his 100th career title in Dubai, Federer is now two victories from his 101st. To get there, he may first have to deal with the man who has been his friendly rival for 15 years and who remains a friend: The two had coffee at Federer’s rented home last week to discuss the state of the tennis world.
“Different styles, different ways to understand the sport,” Nadal said. “And at the same time, two players with a good relationship after all the things that we went through in our careers, competing for the most important things.”
In his first match against Hurkacz, a rangy and powerful 22-year-old from Poland, Federer looked loose from the start as he tested the full range of his skill set.
There was the usual: wickedly sliced backhands, blocked returns and first serve-forehand combination punches. There was also the unusual: chip and charge tactics, serve-and-volley on second serve and no-look flicked backhand overheads.
But it will be hard to be quite so relaxed and experimental against Nadal, whose ability (when healthy) to extend rallies and take command of them with his left-handed, topspin forehand is an entirely different, though much more familiar, challenge.
The two did not play any of the same regular ATP Tour events in 2018, and they did not face off in the three Grand Slam tournaments that they both played: the Australian Open, Wimbledon and the United States Open.
Federer was asked if, after all these years, the matchup with Nadal still gave him more of a thrill than facing an unknown rising player.
“I think a combination,” he said. “If it was only Rafa, I wouldn’t enjoy that as well. I think having the mix is the magic really for me. Playing against young guys to eventually get to Rafa, that’s exciting.”
It was quite an achievement for Nadal to get to Federer through the 22-year-old Khachanov. He was visibly hampered by his knee trouble, which first required treatment on court with Khachanov leading by 2-1 in the second set. Visibly slower and unable to push off as powerfully with his legs to serve, he still found a way to grind and win.
“It’s a special victory considering the way I was feeling,” Nadal said.
Playing with pain has unfortunately become close to the rule on hardcourts for Nadal, who has long complained and warned about the physical toll of hardcourt play.
Nadal, 32, conceded that part of the problem was playing more than 1,100 matches in his career, not just playing on hardcourts. But he also pointed out that other sports tended to be played regularly on grass or on other more forgiving surfaces.
“I love to play on hard, but probably my body doesn’t love it that much,” he said. “And my feeling is there are a lot of players that love to play on hard, true, but their bodies don’t love to play on hard, either.”
He is also concerned about the price he and others might pay in retirement. “When I see some old legends walking around the tour,” he said, “it’s tough.”



Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
Another season of Grand Slam tennis begins at the Australian Open on Monday, but Agnieszka Radwanska, who retired in November, won’t be part of it.
Aptly called “The Ninja” for her ability to inflict out-of-nowhere pain on the opposition from all manner of contortionist positions, Radwanska’s spectacular, poker-faced shotmaking will be missed.
But even without its Ninja, the women’s game is in a memorable phase when it comes to entertainment value and players with an uncommon touch.
At the moment and probably not for long, the tour is a clash of generations with Serena Williams, 37, and Venus Williams, 38, still in the mix along with midcareer champions like Angelique Kerber, 30, and Caroline Wozniacki, 28, and the new wave led by Naomi Osaka, 21, the Japanese sensation who upset Serena Williams to win the United States Open last year. It is rare to see such a range of players clashing with the outcomes so uncertain.
The tour has geographical breadth with players from the United States, Europe, Asia and Australia all in the top 20 and with Ons Jabeur, 24, of Tunisia in the top 60 after last year, becoming the first Arab woman to reach a WTA final.
But there is another strong and too often undervalued selling point: stylistic variety. Though serious baseline power remains the most popular and fail-safe route to stardom, players with subtler, more creative games are also finding a way to win consistently, just as Radwanska, a former world No. 2 and Wimbledon finalist, did before her injuries.
Several of these tennis “artists” will be seeded at the Australian Open: No. 10 Daria Kasatkina of Russia, No. 13 Anastasija Sevastova of Latvia, No. 15 Ashleigh Barty of Australia, and No. 28 Hsieh Su-wei of Taiwan, a 33-year-old whose double-handed, frequently off-speed strokes are as crafty as they come. There is also Jabeur, still an outsider but whose game is a crowd-pleasing mix of baseline punch, feathery touch and Federer-esque flourishes.
“There will always be exceptions to the power players,” said Paul McNamee, the former Australian men’s star who advises Hsieh. “The players you refer to, however, all have one thing in common: exceptional hands. They have amazing touch, and this is why they can survive even if they have less raw power.”
That hardly means they have none. Barty, despite being 5-foot-5 and shorter than most of her rivals, generates the leg drive and racket-head speed to hit big serves and forehands. Her crisply sliced backhand has unusual bite, and she has perhaps the best net game in the sport.
“The plan to get to the net more often is a focus for 2019,” said Craig Tyzzer, her coach. “Ash certainly benefits from playing more doubles than most of the other singles girls, but her volley skills were certainly developed from an early age, which is a massive advantage.”
Kasatkina has a heavy topspin forehand that she can flatten out to create more pace when she requires it.
But what distinguishes the members of the WTA’s creative class from their peers is the size of their tool set and the range of their tactical options. Their success has meant more matchups that feature contrasting styles: important to the appeal of a game where patterns have a tendency to repeat.
“Tennis is a game of chess, of tactics,” said Philippe Dehaes, Kasatkina’s coach, who has emerged as one of the tour’s leading mentors and motivators. “You have to vary zones and trajectories and find the answer suited to what your opponent is doing. To have women who play well tactically and who can keep the ball in play, while varying and creating, makes the show much more interesting for people, in my opinion.”
It is not the contrast that tennis once regularly offered. When Martina Navratilova was attacking the net in the 1970s and 1980s against her baseline-hugging archrival Chris Evert and others, the gulf between styles and tennis philosophies was much wider.
“When you had serve-and-volleyers going against baseliners, that was more of a complete and obvious contrast,” said Tracy Austin, the precocious champion who faced Navratilova frequently. “But in this day and age where the game has become homogenized, we’re looking for any contrast. It’s not as extreme as it used to be, but that’s why Hsieh Su-wei is fun to watch, because you feel like you can see the wheels turning in her mind as to where to place the ball, the geometry of the court. So many players use left and right, and she uses north and south as well.”
Hsieh is constantly changing depth: shifting her target from the backcourt to the forecourt as she mixes in drop shots, angled volleys and sliced and flat groundstrokes.
“Her hands can redirect a shot in either direction on both wings with pinpoint accuracy,” McNamee said. “That’s not normal.”
But outlier fast-twitch defensive skills are required to thrive in an era of abundant power and athleticism, of taller, stronger opposition with superior leverage like Petra Kvitova, Garbine Muguruza, Karolina Pliskova, Madison Keys and the ascendant Aryna Sabalenka.
“I try to do something else than the normal,” said Sevastova, a U.S. Open semifinalist last year whose trademark is the drop shot. “I think it’s important, and it’s my style. It’s not like I don’t have power. I just don’t have that much. But I can handle their pace and hit the ball quickly, and I like variety.”
Dehaes sees more women being able to survive the onslaught.
“I think that has always been the case, but in the last few years we saw it a bit less,” he said. “I think the equipment played a big role, and there was the evolution of women’s tennis with players becoming stronger physically and better technically. Because everyone trains a lot and everyone trains well, which was not always the case in former times. So with more athletic players and more high-performance equipment, the pace of the game accelerated. But I think now the girls are getting used to it and are more able to counter the games of these super-powerful players.”
Tennis’s recent honor roll confirms that. Three of the four Grand Slam singles titles last year went to counterpunchers: the No. 1 player, Simona Halep, and Kerber and Wozniacki, all of whom have long had speed and defensive skills, but who also have focused on improving their serves and learning to embrace risk selectively.
“Honestly, it could be just 15 percent more aggression that can make the difference,” Austin said. “You are just robbing your opponent of a little bit of time on certain shots.”
Martin Blackman, general manager of player development at the United States Tennis Association, says he believes that “we will see more and more complete players on the women’s side.”
Purer power players are also trying to broaden their range. In her late teens, Osaka clearly had potent groundstrokes and a penetrating serve. But she did not make the leap to Grand Slam champion until she lost weight in 2018 and improved her explosive movement, agility and defensive skills with help from her new coach, Sascha Bajin, and her fitness coach, Abdul Sillah.
“She’s pulled back some; Sascha’s got her thinking more on the court rather than just see ball, hit ball,” Austin said. “Now, she’s fit enough and aware enough and realizes, ‘O.K., this is a red-light ball. I have to get the point back to neutral.’ Or ‘this is a green-light ball, and I can go big.’”
The artists are also at work on finding the time to use their brushes.
“My challenge with Dasha,” said Dehaes, using Kasatkina’s nickname, “is to help her find a way to stay in the rally even under great pressure, and at a certain moment, the right moment, make the difference with a variation. But it’s not easy to vary when you play someone like Sabalenka, who hits every ball very hard from everywhere without much theory. It’s very hard to counter this kind of woman.”
Perhaps impossible when a true power player is on target.
“If you have Serena and she’s at the top of her game, I still say that power is always going to win,” Austin said. “I don’t know if Sabalenka is 10 to 15 percent away from that top level or maybe just two weeks away, but when she’s all cylinders firing, I still think she’s going to take out the Kasatkinas, the Sevastovas, the Bartys. But let me tell you. If you’re off a little bit and your timing is messed up a little bit by those combinations — topspin, slice, short, deep — it’s a whole new ballgame.”
Supported by
ByKaren Crouse
MELBOURNE, Australia — Ann Chisholm contemplated traveling from her Minnesota home to watch the main-draw debut of her cousin Danielle Collins at the Australian Open, but it seemed like a flight of fancy. Collins had lost in the first round of the three majors she played last year, and it made little sense for a relative to travel 10,000 miles to see what might be only one match.
But Chisholm continued monitoring airfares after each of Collins’s first three matches in Melbourne, all victories. Then, in the fourth round, the unseeded Collins defeated Angelique Kerber, the 2016 champion and this year’s No. 2 seed.
It was just past 11 on Saturday night in Grand Rapids, Minn., when Collins sealed the upset, and Chisholm’s inner voice, which had been nagging her for a week to hop on a plane, grew so loud she could hardly sleep.
On Sunday morning, Chisholm reached out to Collins and said she was looking at flights to Australia. Chisholm didn’t want her arrival to surprise Collins in case, she said, it “messed up her mojo.”
After Collins reacted enthusiastically, Chisholm, who has four children, asked her husband and her mother if they would watch over things at home if she went away for a few days. Then she called a Delta Air Lines reservation agent, who pieced together a trip from Minneapolis to San Diego, then on to Los Angeles that would deliver her to Melbourne on Tuesday morning.
Chisholm had about five minutes to pack for her journey to the Southern Hemisphere, not enough time to retrieve summer clothes from storage. So she threw some shirts and pants into a suitcase, and when her family left for church, she left for Australia.
The trip went off without a hitch, and a few hours after landing here in Melbourne, Chisholm was in Collins’s player box at Rod Laver Arena, transmitting positive vibes down to the court during Collins’s 2-6, 7-5, 6-1 win over Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova.
With the victory, Collins, 25, earned a semifinal meeting against Petra Kvitova, the eighth seed and a two-time Wimbledon champion, who recently beat Collins in three sets in the first round of a tuneup event in Brisbane.
“I feel like I’m representing the whole family,” Chisholm said.
In St. Petersburg, Fla., Cathy Collins, a preschool teacher, managed a few hours’ sleep before her alarm went off a little after midnight, in time for her to watch television coverage of her daughter’s match. Collins’s father, Walter, a landscaper, waited until after the match to sleep, taking what amounted to a power nap before starting work.
The house where her parents live is the only place Collins has called home. Some of the neighbors have known her since she was born. A couple that lives across the street has been running over to celebrate every win with Collins’s parents.
“When the doorbell rings in the middle of the night, we know who it is,” Cathy Collins said by telephone.
It was a quarter to 8 on Tuesday morning, and Collins’s mother would soon be corralling more than a dozen preschoolers. She had gone back to bed when her daughter’s match was over, and woke up wondering if the victory had been a Technicolor dream.
“It’s weird,” Cathy Collins said. “It’s like, ‘Is my daughter really in the semifinals?’”
On the other side of the world, Collins described her father as “the hardest worker I know” and marveled at her mother’s stamina.
“I don’t know how my mom is managing,” Collins said. “She’s not getting more than four or five hours of sleep on these match nights, and she’s dealing with 15 3-year-olds. She’s a trooper.”
So is Collins, who was ranked 35th in the world coming into this tournament with an 0-5 record in Grand Slam matches. She seems unfazed.
At Collins’s post-match news conference Tuesday, a longtime tennis journalist from Europe began a question by saying: “I hope you understand that we are used to meeting players when they’re kids. You are different from our point of view.”
He went on to compliment her maturity, which Collins attributes to a route less taken. Her family couldn’t afford the elite academies and junior circuits that mold small children into young professionals, so she went to college on an athletic scholarship to get her seasoning.
She started at the University of Florida, then transferred to the University of Virginia. Collins won two N.C.A.A. singles titles while earning a degree in media studies and making lifelong friends, many of them non-athletes.
“I think not being a child prodigy, not being a superstar at a young age, certainly humbled me, made me in a way work harder for things,” Collins said, adding, “I think it’s kind of made me hungrier in some ways, like not having that, ‘Oh, I’ve always been really amazing at tennis.’ It wasn’t always like that.”
Collins comes across as feisty — her mother said she’d had “a fighting spirit” since childhood. Collins also oozes confidence, regardless of circumstances.
One of her favorite courses at Virginia wasDenise Stewart’s introduction to drama.
“One of the things she taught us is sometimes you’ve got to go to your job and you’ve got to sit in that cubicle when you don’t want to for eight hours and fake it till you make it,” Collins said. “And so much of life is acting. You’ve got to always have a positive mind-set.”
Stewart said she was not surprised that Collins had found the big stage. Her success, she said, transcends tennis.
“She is such the right woman at this time to say, ‘Humble is not my jam,’” Stewart said.
Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weeklyAustralia Letter, start your day with your localMorning Briefingand join us in ourFacebook group.


Supported by
On Tennis
ByKaren Crouse
MELBOURNE, Australia — After bowing out of the Australian Open this week, Jack Sock and his childhood friend and doubles partner, Jackson Withrow, ended up on opposite sides of a great divide.
Withrow’s childhood dream was to play professional tennis; doubles proved to be his only portal.
Sock, the world’s second-ranked doubles player, has an Olympic gold medal from 2016 that he won in the mixed event, which led to his being honored at a University of Nebraska football game and throwing a ceremonial first pitch at a Kansas City Royals baseball game.
In addition, he shares four Grand Slam titles, three in doubles and the other in mixed.
Sock, 26, has also climbed as high as No. 8 in singles, which is where he stood last year at this time. His ranking since has tumbled to 105, but singles remains No. 1 in his heart.
“I can personally say if I’m not relevant in the singles world and my only choice is to play doubles, I’d probably stop playing tennis,” Sock said.
Doubles is supposed to be the harmonic expression of tennis, but at the Australian Open, the doubles court has become the receptacle for petty grievances and philosophical divergences. It started with Bernard Tomic accusing his countryman and Davis Cup captain, Lleyton Hewitt, ofa litany of leadership failures, including writing himself into the lineup for Davis Cup.
Then Dan Evans, the 189th-ranked singles player, fanned the flames in his native Britain by describing doubles players as athletes “who didn’t make it at singles and people who didn’t have the attitude to work hard enough to make it in the singles game.”
Jamie Murray, ranked seventh in doubles, dismissed Evans’s comments as “lazy” and “just total nonsense” and said, “We should be celebrating any success we have in the sport — doubles, mixed doubles, wheelchairs, whatever.”
The Australian Open is called the Happy Slam, but the crankiness quotient at this one has been high — as if everybody woke up on the wrong side of 2019. The men’s tour appears to be a house divided over the future of the ATP president and chief executive, Chris Kermode, who some believe should be removed from office. The women have complained that the men do not support gender equity. The men fell in line behind an exasperated Rafael Nadal, who said at a news conference, “I don’t know why you are trying all the time to create these kinds of stories on this thing.”
On Wednesday, the tournament’s 10th day, there was harmony, at least in the stands of Rod Laver Arena. During a changeover in the Australian Samantha Stosur’s semifinal victory with Zhang Shuai against Barbora Strycova and Marketa Vondrousova, the Village People blared from the speakers and even the chair umpire got in the act of forming the letters in Y.M.C.A.
By the tournament’s stretch run, all of Australia was celebrating doubles since the men’s, women’s, mixed and wheelchair finals included at least one native son or daughter. (An Australian hasn’t won a singles title here since 1978.) But no amount of success will sway Sock to embrace doubles exclusively.
Sock, who played most of last year with Mike Bryan because Bryan’s twin, Bob, was nursing a hip injury, won two majors and about $1.3 million playing doubles and $738,747 while compiling a 9-21 record in singles. He finished 17th over all in ATP prize money despite ranking outside the top 100 in singles.
“It’s not just singles that you can make a career from in tennis,” said Murray, who has six Grand Slam titles to his brother Andy’s three in singles. “It’s important for a lot of young kids to know that growing up. It’s not easy to make it in the tennis world. There are only a few people that can make a really good living from the game. The journey is incredibly long. However you get there, whether it’s singles or doubles or whatever, there’s options there for you.”
With four career singles titles, including three in 2017, Sock would appear to have more options than most. But he doesn’t see it that way.
Ryan Harrison, who teamed with Sam Querrey to beat Sock and Withrow in the round of 16 this week, said: “Jack doesn’t want to feel discredited for his singles ability because of his dominance in doubles. And a lot of time his success in doubles overshadows him as a top-10 singles player. He’s going, ‘I’ve been 8 in the world in singles, and people are talking about me like a doubles guy.’ That perception is always going to be difficult for him.”
As long as the stigma persists that doubles players are lesser than singles players, the Socks of the sport are going to have a strong incentive to stick to singles. Harrison said he has tried to appeal to Sock’s vanity.
“I’ve told him it’d give him more confidence in singles if he took more pride in literally being the most dominant doubles player,” Harrison said. “He feels like he’s being viewed as someone not capable of playing singles.”
Mike Bryan said he hated to hear Sock would sooner leave the sport than stick to doubles.
“When he gets out on the doubles court, he has a blast,” Bryan said. “And because of doubles, he’s played in some of the biggest stadiums in the world, he’s won a gold medal, he’s been honored at a Nebraska football game. What’s the harm in all of that?”



Supported by
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — The first point of the Australian Open men’s final on Sunday told the story of all that was to come.
With his opening serve, Novak Djokovic stretched Rafael Nadal wide, sending the Spaniard sprawling. Djokovic quickly had his longtime rival exactly where he wanted: off balance and unglued.
In a flash, as Nadal spun 360 degrees and scrambled to recover, Djokovic took a half-dozen confident steps forward. He lined up a backhand and then unleashed a buzzing winner that Nadal did not even try for.
Point won. Point made. Rafael Nadal: toast.
The match, held at Rod Laver Arena on a warm and slightly breezy evening, finished just 2 hours 4 minutes later, Djokovic winning in a full-blown knockout, 6-3, 6-2, 6-3.
This was a win that tightened the 31-year-old Serb’s hold on the top spot in men’s tennis. It also elevated his name once again in the annals of tennis history. He now has a record seven Australian Open titles and has moved to sole possession of third place for major titles, with 15, breaking a tie with Pete Sampras.
The three powerhouse sets were as fine and dominating as Djokovic — or anyone — has ever played in a major tournament final.
“It ranks right at the top,” Djokovic said, assessing his performance at a news conference. “At this level, under these circumstances, it was truly a perfect match.”
He could not have seen this coming. Nobody could.
Djokovic versus Nadal, No. 1 vs. No. 2, was arguably the most anticipated match of the tournament. It was the first occasion in which these two tense rivals — who have now played 53 times on tour, with Djokovic winning 28 — had met in the finals of a Grand Slam event since 2014, when Nadal slipped by Djokovic in four sets at Roland Garros in Paris.
Given the scintillating way both had performed throughout the tournament, with Nadal winning every set he played in his first six matches and with Djokovic winning all but two, it seemed certain that they would duel once again deep into the Melbourne night.
It was a match that was expected to dust off hallowed memories of what might have been their greatest combined moment of glory. In 2012, the two played one of the most epic finals in Grand Slam history, right on Laver’s sea-blue center court:a 5-hour-53-minute marathonwon by Djokovic, the longest major final ever.
But a reprise was not to be. What unfolded was not even a reasonable facsimile.
Still, the night had its own way of being unforgettable. The final failed to offer drama, but it did present beauty — that of a top-flight athlete, among tennis’s greatest champions, operating at the very peak of his powers.
“Things started so quick,” Nadal said, snapping his fingers twice to emphasize the point. “He was pushing me to every ball. He played so well. He hit so long. His return was fantastic. He was super quick.”
Nadal, 32, did not appear particularly downcast after the match. Instead, it seemed as if he had simply resigned himself to the result. He noted that he had been injured and had not been able to prepare for the tournament as he had wished. Indeed, after pulling out of his semifinal match at the United States Open last September and then having ankle surgery, he had not played a match on tour until this tournament began.
But he also allowed that there had been nothing he could really do on Sunday against Djokovic, saying it “was unbelievable, the way that he played, no doubt about that.”
Djokovic made only nine unforced errors. He lost just one point on his serve in the first set. He aggressively shortened every rally he could, keeping them to an average of five shots, a stunningly low number considering the long-distance finals he and Nadal have slugged out in the past. Riding pinpoint accuracy and depth, he so flummoxed Nadal that the Spaniard once swung and whiffed on a forehand.
Nadal, whose tally for major titles remains at 17, three behind Roger Federer’s record, threw all he could muster at the match, especially as it drained from his grip. He worked in as many drop shots as he could. He altered positioning on his returns. He moved early, trying to guess which way Djokovic was serving.
Nothing worked.
Djokovic led early in every stanza and never looked back. There was no tension. The match was shorter by 23 minutes thanSaturday’s stirring women’s finalbetween Naomi Osaka and Petra Kvitova, which also unfolded in three sets but was blessed by tension at every turn.
“For me, one of the most important objectives for the match was to start off well and bring the intensity and make sure that he also feels my presence,” said Djokovic, who looked remarkably calm and centered, both during the match and afterward. “He always makes sure that the opponent across the net feels his presence. That is how he plays. That’s how he behaves. He brings so much energy, jumping around, sprinting.
“It was crucial for me to start off with an early break. Having a set under my belt just made me relax a bit more, not really worry too much. After that, it was smooth.”
Smooth. Perfect summary.
It was a rare lopsided Grand Slam final between men’s tennis greats, reminiscent ofNadal’s wipeout of Federerat the 2008 French Open andJohn McEnroe’s rout of Jimmy Connorsat Wimbledon in 1984.
But it should not be forgotten how far the two came to get to the finals, the hurdles overcome. There is Nadal with his injuries, which have piled up over the years, especially on hard courts. There is Djokovic with the way he struggled with his confidence and his health after winning the French Open in 2016. For two full tennis seasons, it felt as if he was lost in the wilderness, in matches including afourth-round lossat Melbourne Park last year to the unseeded South Korean Hyeon Chung.
Djokovic underwent elbow surgery not long after that match. At first, the operation did not help his on-court results. He appeared to be a doubting and unhappy shadow of his self. Improbably, he found his game on the Wimbledon grass,winning the title thereand then following that up with another championship at the U.S. Open in September.
According to the International Tennis Federation, Djokovic is the first man to record three streaks of three or more Grand Slam titles in a row. He won four straight from Wimbledon in 2015 to the 2016 French Open, and three in a row from Wimbledon in 2011 to the 2012 Australian Open.
His chance to hold all four major titles at the same time will come in four months at the French Open, which he has won only once (Nadal has been the champion at Roland Garros 11 times).
Sustain this level through the United States Open, and it is not impossible to imagine him winning a calendar-year Grand Slam. No man has done that since Rod Laver in 1969.
And what about reaching Federer’s record 20 Grand Slam titles?
Asked about those milestones on Sunday, Djokovic was his typically reflective self.
“I am aware that making history of the sport that I truly love is something special,” he said.
He then gave a nod to the kind of uncertainty that he knows very well, firsthand: the way injuries and loss of confidence can shake the very best of foundations. There are no sure bets.
“How many seasons are to come? I don’t know,” he added, noting that he was trying hard not to get too far ahead of himself. “I do want to definitely focus myself on continuing to improve so I would be able to compete at such a high level for the years to come — and have a shot at eventually getting closer to Roger’s record.
“It’s still far.”
True, but if he keeps playing in the fluid, focused way he did on this Sunday evening in Melbourne, 20 Grand Slams will come into focus soon enough.




Supported by
ByKaren Crouse
MELBOURNE, Australia — Serena Williams dressed for work on Tuesday as though she were intent on reminding people who she was before she became a wife and mother.
The last time Williams graced Rod Laver Arena, in 2017, she dispatched her older sister Venus in the Australian Open women’s final while in the early stages of her pregnancy. She was unable to defend her title last year because she wasn’t ready to return to the tour aftera harrowing medical ordeal during and after childbirth.
In her return, 717 days later, Williams warmed up for her first-round match against Tatjana Maria wearing a short black trench coat. Once she got back to her chair, she peeled off the coat to reveal a muscle-hugging, bright green shorts-and-tank-top set that called to mind the black outfit that Williams wore 17 years ago in a first-round match at the United States Open.
It was a bold fashion statement for the 37-year-old Williams, resurrecting the “Serena-tard,” as she called it, which she first made famous in 2002 when she had one of her most sublime seasons, with victories in the French Open, Wimbledon and U.S. Open, and a 56-5 match record.
Williams’s 6-0, 6-2 victory against Maria, her friend and fellow mother, felt like it took place in 2002. She breezed through the opening set in 18 minutes and won 54 points to Maria’s 24. Williams, the No. 16 seed, produced 22 winners.
“I knew that I’ve been working really, really hard in the off-season to be incredibly fit,” said Williams, who can equal Margaret Court’s record 24 Grand Slam singles titles with a victory here.
Maria said she hopes that Williams succeeds. “I have a lot of respect for her for what she’s done in the sport,” she said. “Maybe I was a little bit overwhelmed.”
Maria and Williams live near each other in Florida and occasionally get together for barbecues, Maria said, but she did not feel comfortable on the Australian Open’s main showcourt, which is like a second home to Williams, a seven-time champion. “At the beginning, I didn’t find my rhythm,” Maria said.
Williams eschewed interviews and kept a low profile in the lead-up to this tournament, her first since her unsettling defeat in the United States Open final last fall, where her outburst toward the chair umpire led to her being penalized a game and fined $17,000. While Williams and Maria warmed up before the match, the D.J. played snippets of songs that included Joan Jett’s “Bad Reputation.” If it was an attempt to get a rise out of Williams, she didn’t engage.
She spoke afterward about her dual focus — on tennis when she’s on the court and on her 16-month-old daughter, Alexis Olympia, when she’s not.
“Spending a lot of time with my daughter is a priority for me,” Williams said. “As a working mom I feel guilty. I understand that’s normal. These are years I’ll never get back.”
Williams can’t get the time back that she took off from tennis after having a child. The best she can do is win the Australian Open title that she couldn’t defend last year, and to that end, she got off to a fast start.
Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weeklyAustralia Letter, start your day with your localMorning Briefingand join us in ourFacebook group.

Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — The undercard became the main event at the Indian Wells Tennis Garden on Saturday.
The crowd arrived eager to watch Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal renew their rivalry, a few fans having paid dearly to secure a final-hour ticket to Stadium 1.
But Nadal, having tendinitis in his right knee, soon announced his withdrawal after testing the knee in a morning training session.
The only men’s semifinal to be played on Saturday at the BNP Paribas Open was between Dominic Thiem and Milos Raonic, and Thiem prevailed, 7-6 (3), 6-7 (3), 6-4, in a match of contrasting styles in which there was only one break of serve.
That came at 2-2 in the third set when Thiem finally found a window of opportunity against Raonic’s huge serve (and improved volleying). Raonic struck a forehand into the net while facing break point, and Thiem took it from there despite playing a relatively shaky final game in which he had to save the only break point he faced all afternoon.
It will be Thiem versus Federer in Sunday’s final. It will be the ninth final here in the desert for the fourth-seeded Federer, who has won the title five times but lost last year’s final after squandering three match points against Juan Martín del Potro.
It will be the first final at Indian Wells for the seventh-seeded Thiem, and it could be quite an eye-catching duel given each man’s flashy style and their 2-2 head-to-head record.
But it will not generate the same sort of anticipation as a Federer-Nadal rematch. They have not faced each other in 17 months, and this would have been their 39th meeting in singles. But Nadal, who has had patellar tendinitis for years, felt fresh pain in the late stages of his quarterfinal victory over Karen Khachanov on Friday.
Late on Saturday morning, Nadal texted his friendly rival Federer to let him know that he would not be able to play.
“For me, it’s not about only today,” Nadal said. “It’s about what it means for me to have to pull out in a tournament that I love so much like this one, and in the semifinals after playing well during the whole tournament. You can imagine that I can’t be happy.”
Nadal also announced his withdrawal from the Miami Open, which begins next week and is one of the few significant events he has not won. His decision not to play on Saturday was also made with the goal of preserving his clay-court season. An 11-time French Open singles champion and the most successful clay-court player ever, Nadal said he fully expected to be ready to play on clay in Monte Carlo next month.
Federer, 37, appeared in the stadium after the Thiem-Raonic match to give an on-court interview for the fans. Nadal leads their rivalry, 23-15, but Federer has won five straight, most recently in the final of the Shanghai Masters in 2017.
“We’ve had so many epic battles, and yes, I know that everyone we have now could be our last,” Federer said. “So was this our chance for the last one? I really hope not, and I really believe at the level he’s playing and I’m still going, there are definitely going to be more.”


Supported by
For Serbs living in Australia, Djokovic is a sporting hero who provides a connection to their culture and tradition.
ByKaren Crouse
MELBOURNE, Australia — Novak Djokovic, the men’s world No. 1 from Serbia, has been lifting up people from his homeland for years, but not usually like this. At the end of a practice session during last year’s Australian Open, Djokovic walked over to a waist-high fence where fans were packed 10-deep to watch him and hoisted a boy from the front of the crowd over the barricade and onto the court.
That boy, 8-year-old Novak Pokrajac, then got to play a few points with the man for whom he was named, including a 29-shot rally that ended with him hitting an overhead smash past Djokovic for a winner.
Both Novaks are back at Melbourne Park this year — Djokovic, 31, is seeking his seventh Australian Open title and 15th Grand Slam trophy, and Pokrajac, 9, is hoping to entice Djokovic into a practice-court rematch.
For the tens of thousands of Australians of Serbian descent, Djokovic is the secular saint of sport, worshiped by Serbs who still feel an acute sense of persecution nearly two decades after the worst of the Balkans’ fractious ethnic violence. That was evident on Wednesday afternoon, when Djokovic hit with the Australian teenager Alexei Popyrin in front of a crowd that included about a dozen fans flying the red, blue and white colors of the Serbian flag.
Even during the 50 weeks of the year when the Melbourne Park courts go quiet, Djokovic’s presence looms. In the office off the Serbian Voice, a weekly newspaper on the western edge of Melbourne, one wall serves as a shrine to celebrated Serbian figures from history: Serbian Orthodox Church figures; Vuk Karadzic, the creator of the Serbian Cyrillic alphabet; Nikola Tesla, the Serbian-American inventor;and Djokovic.
For Serbia, a nation of seven million people, it is “a big deal” to be able to claim the top-ranked player in men’s tennis — and one of the best ever — said Zeljko Prodanovic, the newspaper’s editor.
“After the war, it’s not so easy to say, ‘Here we are,’” he said. “You look at the movies, Serbs are always the bad guys. But now we can say we have the best tennis player in the world. That makes us proud.”
The newspaper’s owner, Zivana Jovanovic, has welcomed several Serbian luminaries to her office in her two decades at the helm, including the actor Dragan Nikolic and the retired N.B.A. player Vlade Divac. She has never met Djokovic but said she felt as if she knows him because of his high profile. For all his fame, Jovanovic said, Djokovic comes across as humble.
“I like that about him,” she said. “He hasn’t let all his success go to his head.”
Djokovic’s celebrity status has made it hard for him to move freely in public in Melbourne, but in his younger days he had regular haunts: a church where he would ring in the Orthodox New Year, or the restaurants on Lygon Street, known for its outdoor cafes and European eateries. Now, though, when Djokovic ventures out into the city, as he did before the tournament for a photo opportunity for one of his sponsors, he is swarmed by admirers.
Still, Djokovic said he tries to meet and chat with Serbs wherever he goes and invite them to watch him play.
“I guess it nurtures the culture and tradition,” he said. “Me as one of the athletes from our country that is internationally successful, I feel there is also a responsibility to represent the country in a right way. For a lot of those people, especially who live here, they have not seen or been to Serbia for a long time. So for them it’s quite a treat to have me playing here and other tennis players from Serbia.”
Michael Popovic, a middle-aged Serb who emigrated from Belgrade to Melbourne in his 20s, was at Rod Laver Arena in 2008 when Djokovic defeated Roger Federer in the semifinals to reach the final, where he would defeat Jo-Wilfried Tsonga for his first major title.
“The feeling I had at that moment was very hard to describe,” said Popovic, a restaurateur. “It was like I just won.”
Popovic owns Mediterraneo, a restaurant on a quiet street in an upscale neighborhood south of the city center that specializes in steak and seafood. The restaurant also offers vegan and gluten-free dishes — “Because of Novak,” Popovic said, referring to Djokovic’s decision several years ago to overhaul his diet.
“I serve Serbian burgers with no bread crumbs,” Popovic added. “That was Novak’s influence, also.”
But the only Djokovic whom Popovic has served is Novak’s uncle Goran. “Somehow I’ve never had the pleasure of having Novak here,” he said.
That nearly changed last weekend, when a large party of Serbs — including the pro Janko Tipsarevic, who every year distributes tournament tickets to the local Serbian community through one of his friends — stopped in for dinner. Djokovic was supposed to join them, but long after they had been seated, they received a text from him saying they should eat without him because he was stuck in meetings related to his responsibilities as the president of the ATP Player Council.
“It was a pity,” Popovic said. “I was really hoping he would come.”
On Monday, Pokrajac, the young fan, made sure he wouldn’t miss Djokovic, arriving at Melbourne Park with his mother, Snezana, more than an hour before the player was scheduled to practice. He wanted to claim a prime viewing spot, up against the fence again. The night before, Pokrajac said, he had imagined getting to hit again with Djokovic, borrowing a technique that has served him well in his matches.
“If I visualize something before,” Pokrajac said, “then it will happen.”
After Djokovic finished practicing, Pokrajac shouted, “Remember me, Novak? I’m here from Perth.”
Djokovic remembered. He came over, hoisted Pokrajac over the fence again, handed him a racket, and they began to hit. They played four “points.” The second rally was 34 shots; the fourth ended on the 16th, when Pokrajac hit a half-volley for a winner.
His prize was a hug and a signed T-shirt from Djokovic, who also offered a tip on how to return a slice.
“He told me to get lower,” Pokrajac said.
Two days later, Pokrajac staked out his same spot. He unfurled a Serbian flag that he had signed and which he intended to present to Djokovic as a parting gift. After his session, Djokovic came over and accepted the flag. He read what Pokrajac had written: “To Novak from Novak from Perth.” Under his signature Pokrajac had written, “It’s going to be worth gold money” and added a smiley face.
Djokovic hugged him. As Pokrajac turned to rejoin his mother, his smile was incandescent.
“I feel like I know him,” Pokrajac said. “I think we’re going to be friends now.”
Ben Rothenberg contributed reporting.
Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weeklyAustralia Letter, start your day with your localMorning Briefingand join us in ourFacebook group.
Karen Crouse is a sports reporter who joined the Times in 2005. She started her newspaper career at the Savannah News-Press as the first woman in the sports department. Her first book, "Norwich," was published in January, 2018.@bykaren
Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — In what is usually one of his most successful stretches of the season, top-ranked Novak Djokovic fell short of expectations for the second time this month, losing, 1-6, 7-5, 6-3, to No. 22 Roberto Bautista Agut in the fourth round of the Miami Open on Tuesday afternoon.
After gaining a foothold in the match early in the second set, Bautista Agut endured a 40-minute rain delay before drawing level. After breaking for a 3-1 advantage, Bautista Agut dropped his serve but then broke Djokovic again immediately, extending his lead to 5-2 before the two traded holds to finish the match.
“The key of the match was at the beginning of the second set, no?” Bautista Agut said. “If I wanted to win the match, I had to be very close at the score. Otherwise Novak, when he gets an advantage, he plays really aggressive.”
Indeed, Djokovic had never previously lost a match at the Miami Open after winning the first set, a string of 41 matches.
His advantage looked even more secure when he broke Bautista Agut in the first game of the second set, but Djokovic could not hold in the next game.
“I lost the momentum,” Djokovic said. “I lost the rhythm in the second set. I gave him a little room to step in, and he did. A little hope that he can come back, and he made a great comeback. But fault is on me, for sure. I had way too many opportunities that I wasted.”
Djokovic, a six-time champion in Miami, came into the tournament with little momentum, having lost to Philipp Kohlschreiber in the third round at Indian Wells, a tournament where he is a five-time champion.
The stumbles have come unexpectedly for Djokovic, who had appeared untouchable as he finished his run to a seventh Australian Open title in January, finishing off the major with a 6-3, 6-2, 6-3 win over Rafael Nadal in the final.
Djokovic’s inability to dominate has been consistent with the parity on tour this season: The 19 ATP tournaments this season have each been won by a different man. While Djokovic is still a clear leader of the pack in the rankings, his leadership role off the court has perhaps hampered that status.
Djokovic, the president of the ATP player council, has spent these tournaments embroiled in a back room imbroglio over the ATP board’s contentious decision not to renew the contract of the chief executive, Chris Kermode.
Though Djokovic initially refuted a suggestion that those things had disrupted his play, he ultimately conceded that the distractions had been detrimental.
“I just had way too many things off the court,” Djokovic said. “I guess that affected me a little bit on the court.”
It was Bautista Agut’s third win over Djokovic in 10 matches. He also defeated him in their most recent meeting in January, in the semifinals of the ATP tournament in Doha, Qatar.
Bautista Agut converted 4 of 7 break point opportunities on Tuesday, compared with 4 of 13 for Djokovic.
“This kind of match I should not have lost,” Djokovic said. “So many opportunities. Just way too many wasted opportunities.”
ISNER ADVANCES; KYRGIOS LOSESThe defending champion John Isner reached the Miami Open quarterfinals with a 7-6(5), 7-6(3) win over Britain’s Kyle Edmund on Tuesday, while Nick Kyrgios, in a loss to Brona Coric, was given a point penalty for an audible obscenity.
The obscenity by Kyrgios, who produced perhaps the shot of the tournament early in his 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 loss to the 11th-seeded Coric, was apparently directed at a spectator. The penalty put him down a double break in the third set.
Up next for Coric will be a clash with Felix Auger-Aliassime, who beat No. 17 Nikoloz Basilashvili, 7-6(4) 6-4, to become the first qualifier to reach the last eight in Miami since Guillermo Canas in 2007. Auger-Aliassime, an 18-year-old Canadian qualifier, also became the first player born in the 2000s to reach a Masters quarterfinal.
Isner, known for his serve, fired 17 aces and won 81 percent of his first-serve points to reach the quarterfinals without dropping a set through three matches in Miami. He will next face Bautista Agut. (REUTERS)
KVITOVA ATTACKER SENTENCEDA man who stabbed the two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova in her home was sentenced to eight years in prison on Tuesday.
Radim Zondra, 33, was convicted of causing Kvitova serious bodily harm by a regional court in Brno, Czech Republic.
The state prosecutor requested 12 years for Zondra, who pleaded not guilty to attacking Kvitova in December 2016 in her apartment in Prostejov.
Kvitova’s spokesman, Karel Tejkal, said she “respects the ruling of an independent court.”
“She’s satisfied with the verdict because she identified the convicted person as the attacker,” Tejkal said.
Zondra can appeal, and so can the prosecution. (ASSOCIATED PRESS)

Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
Naomi Osaka, the No. 1-ranked player in the world, announced on Monday that she was splitting with her coach, Sascha Bajin, abruptly ending one of the most successful recent partnerships in women’s tennis at what seemed to be a high point.
Hey everyone, I will no longer be working together with Sascha. I thank him for his work and wish him all the best in the future.
The surprising announcement came just 16 days after Osaka won the Australian Open, her second major title under Bajin’s watch. The win vaulted her to the No. 1 ranking, a first for an Asian player on the men’s or women’s singles tours.
Bajin, who became a coach after serving as the longtime hitting partner of Serena Williams, was named the WTA’s Coach of the Year in 2018. He responded on Twitter to Osaka’s announcement.
Osaka, 21, was ranked 68th when she hired Bajin in the lead-up to the 2018 season, giving him his first head coaching role. She quickly surged under his guidance, reaching the second week of a Grand Slam for the first time at the 2018 Australian Open, and then winning her first professional singles title at Indian Wells, Calif., in March.
Osaka beat Williams, her idol, for the first time in her next match in the first round of the Miami Open, and then memorably beat her again six months later in the final of the U.S. Open, a victory which took her into the top-10 for the first time.
The reasons for the split were unclear. Bajin did not respond to messages seeking comment, and Osaka’s agent, Stuart Duguid, declined to comment.
Osaka’s split from Bajin is the latest on a coaches’ carousel in which successhas not guaranteed longevity in player-coach partnerships. Last year’s French Open champion, Simona Halep, and the Wimbledon champion, Angelique Kerber, parted with their coaches at the end of last season, meaning that the reigning champions of the past four Grand Slam events are no longer with the coaches who helped them to those titles.
Halep, ranked third, is now working with Thierry Van Cleemput, who split with his longtime charge David Goffin at the Australian Open.
Osaka, who has not yet named a successor to Bajin, will play her first match as WTA No. 1 next week in Dubai. It will be her first time as the No. 1 seed at any WTA event.
Asked after the Australian Open final what advice Bajin had given her before the match, Osaka smiled and said she hadn’t talked to him.
“Yeah, no, like we haven’t really been talking, to be honest, like before any of my matches here,” Osaka said. “He would tell me, like, one thing, then I would be, like, ‘O.K.’ That was it.”



Supported by
In her words
The U.S. women’s soccer team has filed a gender discrimination lawsuit. The players are the latest athletes to demand equal treatment.
ByMaya Salam
You’re reading In Her Words, where women rule the headlines.Sign uphere to get it delivered to your inbox. Let me know what you think atdearmaya@nytimes.com.
“Everyone thinks women should be thrilled when we get crumbs, and I want women to have the cake, the icing and the cherry on top, too.”
— Billie Jean King, a tennis legend who led the charge for pay equality in her sport
Last week, all 28 players on the U.S. women’s national soccer team — the greatest women’s soccer team in the world — filed a gender discrimination lawsuit against the United States Soccer Federation, another move in itslong-running battlefor equality.
The athletes — including the stars Alex Morgan, Megan Rapinoe and Carli Lloyd — are not just taking issue with their paychecks but also with where they play, how they travel to matches, and the medical treatment and coaching they receive, in what they called “institutionalized gender discrimination,” asmy colleague Andy Das reported.
“We’ve always, dating back to forever, been a team that stood up for itself and fought hard for what it felt it deserved and tried to leave the game in a better place,” Rapinoe told The New York Times on Friday.
The women’s team holds a record three World Cup championships and four Olympic gold medals.
[READ MORE: U.S. Women’s Soccer Team Sues U.S. Soccer for Gender Discrimination]
The issue of pay inequality in sports is of course not just soccer’s problem. Women across all sports are paid less, and many have fought for equity in salary and in prize money.
Here are other cases where pay inequality has been stark, compelling female athletes to speak out.
The U.S. Open.After long-fought battles by champions like Billie Jean King, Chris Evert, Martina Navratilova, and Venus and Serena Williams, tennis has seen the most progress when it comes to pay equity.The first real appeal was made in 1970 by King, after a tournament in Italy for which she was paid just $600 for taking the women’s title. The men’s winner was awarded $3,500. King would later make this statement: “Everyone thinks women should be thrilled when we get crumbs, and I want women to have the cake, the icing and the cherry on top, too.”In 1973, King threatened to sit out the U.S. Open unless the prize money was made equal. It worked. That year, the men’s and women’s champions were paid equally, and the U.S. Open has paid its winners equally since. Other Grand Slams, though, were slow to follow suit.
[READ MORE: Eight Times Women in Sports Fought for Equality]
The Australian Open, and other Grand Slams.Prize money forthe Australian Open had fluctuated for decades:In 1978, the men’s winner was paid about 585 percent more than the women’s,ESPN reported last year. And in the mid-1980s, the women’s winner was paid slightly more. By the mid-1990s, men were again paid more, prompting officials in the Women's Tennis Association to push hard for equal pay. In 2001, theAustralian Openagreed, and winners have been compensated equally since. The French Open came around in 2006, and then Wimbledon in 2007, a change led by Venus Williams.Williams made a failed plea to Wimbledon’s governing body the night before she took the title in 2005. And in 2006, she wrote anop-ed in The Times of Londontitled “Wimbledon Has Sent Me a Message: I’m Only a Second Class Champion.” In 2007, she was awarded $1.4 million for her victory, the same as the men’s champion, Roger Federer. More recently,Novak Djokovic, currently the No. 1 men’s player in the world, suggested men deserve more money. “The stats are showing that we have much more spectators on the men’s tennis matches,”he said in 2016. “I think that’s one of the reasons why maybe we should get awarded more.”
The W.N.B.A.When compared with the N.B.A., athletes in the W.N.B.A. face extremepay disparities— though, as is often pointed out, the N.B.A. is a multibillion dollar industry, while the W.N.B.A. is not. Nonetheless, in 2018, theW.N.B.A. set an individual salary capof $117,500, and rookies earned a minimum of about $50,000. The minimum starting salary for N.B.A. players is about $580,000.
Last summer, A’ja Wilson, a star rookie who was the No. 1 overall W.N.B.A. draft pick in 2018, commented on LeBron James’s $154 million contract with the Los Angeles Lakers. “Must be nice. We over here looking for an M but Lord, let me get back in my lane,” shetweeted.Wilson earned about $53,000 that season. The top N.B.A. draft pick last year,Deandre Ayton, is expected to earn $6.8 million in his first year.
U.S.A. Hockey.In March 2017, the women’s national hockey teamannounced that it would boycottthe coming world championship if U.S.A. Hockey did not increase the women’s wages. The risk paid off. Within days,the team and U.S.A. Hockeyreached a four-year dealthat gave the female players a $2,000 training stipend each month from the United States Olympic Committee and larger bonuses for winning medals. “We want to do the fair thing, and the right thing — not just for hockey but for all women,” Meghan Duggan, the team’s captain, said at the time.
Sign up here to get In Her Words delivered to your inbox!
______
Here are five articles from The Times you might have missed.
“My passion has been taken away.”A midwife who has delivered hundreds of babies for Mennonite women is facing felony charges for practicing without the proper license. The women are speaking publicly in her defense. [Read the story]
“Black audiences are what I’ve considered my base, and I will always make movies for that base.”The actress Regina Hall talks about the two Hollywoods, spirituality and success. [Read the story]
“Even Google can no longer hide its gender pay gap.”A new federal rule will force big companies to report pay scales according to gender and race. [Read the story]
“I didn’t mean to be brave.”When her husband was arrested on child pornography charges, Maddie Corman’s world fell apart. Then she made a play about it. [Read the story]
“It will be good not to be a black spot on the map any longer.”Mario Batali exits his restaurants a year after reports that he sexually assaulted and harassed women. [Read the story]
______
For Women’s History Month, we’re highlighting stories of trailblazing women you may not know, but should. We’ll bring you two women each week in this newsletter; head over toour Instagramfor daily posts.
In 1995, Alison Hargreaves became the first woman to conquer Mount Everest alone, without bottled oxygen or the help of Sherpas. When she reached the peak, she sent a radio message to her son and daughter: “To Tom and Kate, my dear children, I am on the highest point of the world, and I love you dearly.”
Her homeland, Britain, rejoiced. But the excitement did not last long. Three months later, Hargreaves, 33, died descending from the summit of K2 in Pakistan.Read more about Alison Hargreaves here.
Sign up hereto get future installments of In Her Words delivered to your inbox.
Read past articles here.
Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — In a short stretch of Saturday afternoon, the Miami Open lost two of its biggest attractions — and just held on to a third. Top-ranked Naomi Osaka lost her third-round match, 4-6, 7-6(4), 6-3 to 27th-seeded Hsieh Su-wei. Midway through Osaka’s match, Serena Williams, an eight-time tournament champion, unexpectedly withdrew, citing a left knee injury.
Osaka, who had emerged as the sport’s best front-runner, had won 63 straight matches when winning the first set, dating to 2016. Osaka also led early in the third set, 2-0, before Hsieh leveled and then took a 4-3 lead she did not let go. Hsieh, a crafty 33-year-old veteran, closed out the victory on her first match point, hitting an overhead smash that Osaka blocked back, and then finishing off the point with an unreturnable slice volley.
Osaka had beaten Hsieh earlier this year in the third round of the Australian Open, 5-7, 6-4, 6-1. Hsieh has used her unorthodox game of jabs and feints to establish a reputation as a giant killer; she knocked then-No. 1 Simona Halep out of the third round of Wimbledon last year.
”It’s always great to pick up a better level during the match,” Hsieh said in her on-court interview. “Every time you’ve made it and you beat a good player, you feel, ‘Wow, this is everything. This is so amazing, and I’ve made it.’”
Osaka, in her typically introspective way, admitted that she had “overestimated” herself in several ways, like thinking she could afford to turn her intensity on and off during matches and judging how well she has been handing the pressure of holding the No. 1 ranking.
“I thought I was doing fine with that, but I guess I’m not,” said Osaka, who has a 3-3 record since assuming the top spot, which she may lose depending on the results of other top players in this event. “I think more about winning now.”
The 10th-seeded Williams, who last won the Miami Open in 2015, was to face 18th-seeded Wang Qiang in a third-round match Sunday. Wang receives a walkover into the fourth round, where she will await the winner between Wang Yafan and 25th-seeded Danielle Collins.
It was the third consecutive tournament in which Williams’s body let her down before her racket did. Williams, 37, was forced to retire midway through her second match in Indian Wells, Calif., earlier this month because of a viral illness. In the Australian Open quarterfinals in January, Williams was leading Karolina Pliskova, 5-1, in the third set when she twisted her ankle on match point. Though she had more match point opportunities, the injury particularly encumbered Williams’s serve, causing her to lose all 10 subsequent points in her service games.
After receiving a bye in the first round of the Miami Open, Williams survived an up-and-down second-round match against 63rd-ranked Rebecca Peterson on Friday afternoon. She had not appeared encumbered by her knee, though she did struggle with blinding glare that shone on her side of the court for part of the match, through gaps at Hard Rock Stadium which is hosting tennis for the first time. Williams survived with a 6-3, 1-6, 6-1 victory but was not happy with her performance.
“I need to just move on and really focus on playing better — or not be in the tournament much longer,” Williams said in her postmatch news conference.
Osaka will next play at the WTA tournament in Stuttgart, Germany, in April, but where Williams will play next is unclear. The next mandatory WTA event for top players is the Madrid Open in May, though Williams has not played there since 2015. Williams did not play any clay court tournaments before the French Open last year, as she focused on improving her conditioning and losing weight she had gained during and after her pregnancy.
That sort of selectivity in scheduling, long a staple of Williams’s career, has increased in recent years, when she has focused more and more on Grand Slam events.
In the men’s draw, Roger Federer avoided being a third high-profile casualty at the tournament on Saturday when he rallied to beat Radu Albot of Moldova, 4-6, 7-5, 6-3. Federer, 37, acknowledged some fuzziness on his tactics against Albot, who won the nearby Delray Beach ATP tournament last month.
“He seemed very clear to me, and I wasn’t,” Federer said. “In the heat of the moment, I started forgetting stuff also that my coach told me.”


Supported by
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — Early in his quarterfinal match at the Australian Open on Tuesday, Frances Tiafoe, part of a new generation of male stars who have emerged for the first time at a Grand Slam tournament, faced a break point against his battle-tested opponent.
But Rafael Nadal, of course, is not just any opponent. He is the No. 2 seed, a champion in Melbourne in 2009, the owner of 17 Grand Slam titles and as punishing a player as ever at age 32.
Nadal’s return of serve came back powerfully, pushing the 21-year-old Tiafoe far to his backhand side for a meager reply. And with that, Nadal, as he did during the entire span of a vintage and coldly efficient victory, had put his opponent on an energy-sapping, confidence-draining string.
The exchange ended, mercifully, with a booming Nadal down-the-line forehand,which the powerfully built Tiafoe sent meekly into the net.
Two games into a much-anticipated fight, Tiafoe’s serve had been broken, his fighting spirit dealt a severe blow.
After winning that first break point, Nadal never looked back. Roughly 90 minutes later, the scoreboard flashed the result: 6-3, 6-4, 6-2.
Earlier, another rising star had done what Tiafoe could not, beating his elder to reach the semifinals. Stefanos Tsitsipas, a 20-year-old from Greece, defeated the 30-year-old Spaniard, Roberto Bautista Agut, 7-5, 4-6, 6-4, 7-6 (2), several hours before Nadal and Tiafoe took the court.
But with Nadal’s win at Rod Laver Arena, a measure of order was restored by a member of the old guard.
Buoyant on court after the match, Nadal told the crowd that he had recently joked that the tour’s young challengers could wait awhile before challenging for tennis supremacy.
“But looks that they don’t want to wait,” he said. “They are there, no?”
In this tournament, Nadal has also beaten Alex de Minaur, the 19-year-old new hope of Australia. In the semifinals on Thursday, he will play Tsitsipas.
Tsitsipas, seeded 14th and the first Greek player to make a serious dent in the pro game, is among the clutch of college-age players heralded by the ATP Tour as eventual successors to the four aging kings of the sport: Nadal, Novak Djokovic, Roger Federer and Andy Murray, who have won virtually every Grand Slam singles title since 2003.
They will not be able to defy time forever. Case in point: Murray, the three-time major champion, a former No. 1 and a two-time Olympic gold medalist, announced at the start of this tournament thathis days as a player may endat this year’s Wimbledon, if not sooner.
“It feels like a fairytale,” Tsitsipas said in a post-match interview.
As he spoke, inside the stadium and out, rowdy fans, many from Melbourne’s large Greek population, chanted songs and danced — as they have all tournament long.
With his flowing locks and scythe-like, one-handed backhand, Tsitsipas had proved himself a legitimate threat to win here when he blunted Federer on center stage Sunday night.
The upset “got people’s attention,” he said. “My biggest challenge was to stay concentrated, stay focused” in order to prove the win over Federer was no fluke.
Tiafoe — known as “Big Foe,” and one of the few black players on tour — could not come close to duplicating Tsitsipas’s effort. Before playing Nadal, the young American seemed to be playing with the form and confidence that would give him a chance for a monumental upset of his own. He had scored three straight surprising wins against higher-ranked players, including oneover the No. 5 seed, Kevin Anderson. He had also gained an avid following with his vivacious on-court persona and post-match celebrations — taking off his shirt and pounding his chest, mimicking his favorite N.B.A. players.
His hope against Nadal was that his young legs would push him past a champion who has won 80 tour titles in a career of nearly two decades.
Add to that: Maybe, just maybe, Nadal would break down on the unforgiving hard court, a surface that has taken a toll on his body.
After all, Nadal completed just one hard court event last year. At the Australian Open, heretired during the fifth set of his quarterfinalagainst Marin Cilic, because of an upper leg injury. At the United States Open in September, he retired again, this time because of a knee injuryduring a semifinalagainst Juan Martín del Potro.
Nadal took the rest of the year off and had ankle surgery. Then, after he arrived in Australia, he withdrew from a warm-up event in Brisbane because of a left thigh injury.
But at Melbourne Park this year, he looks refreshed. His movement is fluid. His ball striking has looked as crisp and powerful as ever.
Tiafoe spoke to this, offering a view of what it’s like from the distressed other side of the court.
“I knew he was going to bring crazy intensity,” Tiafoe said. “I knew the ball was going to be jumping.
“I knew if he got hold of a forehand, it was going to be barbecue chicken,” he continued, resorting to a culinary metaphor to describe how he felt after just a few points: cooked.
Keenly aware of how small the margins between winning and losing are at this level, Nadal slightly altered his service motion during the off-season. He cut down on his backswing to gain more efficient power. He said after Tuesday’s match that he had also worked on finishing points earlier than usual, to reduce the wear on his body.
There is still much tennis to be played in this tournament. Novak Djokovic, the firmly entrenched No. 1 player, remains on the other side of the draw. He and Nadal could meet in the final here for the second time, a rematch of 2012, when Djokovic won in a nearlysix-hour marathon.
But first things first, and for Nadal that means facing Tsitsipas, another chance for the old guard to keep a youthful challenger at bay.
Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weeklyAustralia Letter, start your day with your localMorning Briefingand join us in ourFacebook group.



Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MELBOURNE, Australia — Top-ranked Simona Halep expressed relief and satisfaction after her third-round victory over Venus Williams on Saturday night at the Australian Open. She also remained galvanized for the task ahead — a fourth-round match on Monday against Venus’s sister, Serena.
“It’s always a big challenge to play against the Williams sisters,” Halep said in her on-court interview after her 6-2, 6-3 victory over Venus. “So I was super-motivated today.” As she will have to be on Monday.
“Definitely is the toughest draw I’ve ever had,” Halep said.
Though Halep arrived at Melbourne without a victory since August, she has impressed in her first three matches here. “I think she played pretty flawless today,” was the assessment from Venus Williams after the match.
Serena Williams, meanwhile, easily won her third-round match — 6-2, 6-1 over Dayana Yastremska — and then expressed eagerness for the chance to test herself against the No. 1-ranked Halep.
“I honestly would love to face the world No. 1,” said Williams, adding that she hasn’t faced a No. 1 since her return from maternity leave last year. Actually, Williams has actually not faced a No. 1 player in nearly six years — largely because you can’t be across the net from the No. 1 when you are the No. 1.
Williams’s last match against a top-ranked player was against Victoria Azarenka inFebruary 2013 in the Doha final. Though Williams lost that match, she secured the No. 1 ranking by reaching the semifinals of that tournament and she then held onto it for 186 weeks, through the 2016 U.S. Open, when she ceded it to Angelique Kerber.
Despite her two runs to Grand Slam finals last year, Williams has not beaten many high-profile opponents since her return. She is 1-3 against top-10 players in that span, with the lone victory coming last year against Karolina Pliskova in the United States Open quarterfinals.
Still, Williams is considered the player to beat at every tournament she enters. And according to the player who has spent the last 48 weeks atop the rankings, she’s still the best in the world.
“In my opinion, to be No. 1 in the world and to be the best player in the world, it’s a little bit different,” Halep said. “In this moment, I’m No. 1 in the world, so I will take that. I have been there many months, many weeks.
“But for sure she’s the best player in the world because she won so many Grand Slams,”Halep added in reference to Williams, who is a 23-time Grand Slam singles champion. “She’s been a lot on No. 1. I cannot compare my results to her. But in this moment, I am confident that I am in this position, and I’m positive about it.”
Monday’s blockbuster match is a product of a draw that has been almost devoid of major upsets, with seven of the top eight women reaching the fourth round (No. 3 Caroline Wozniacki lost to five-time Grand Slam champion Maria Sharapova in the third round).
That steadiness by the favorites represents an abrupt arrival of order to women’s Grand Slam tennis: at Wimbledon last year, only one of the top eight reached the fourth round; at the United States Open, only three did.
Pliskova, the only player seeded in the top 8 to make the second week at the last three Grand Slams, could face the winner of the Halep-Williams match in the quarterfinals. She is looking forward to which of the two it might be.
“For sure, the best match now in the draw,” Pliskova said.
The men have also had a steady ride to the round of 16, with six of the top eight seeded players reaching the second week, including the top four.
But those four all have tough challenges directly ahead of them. The top-seeded player, Novak Djokovic, faces No. 15 Daniil Medvedev, whose ranking has soared from No. 65 since the beginning of last season. Rafael Nadal, who is seeded No. 2, faces resurgent veteran Tomas Berdych, who beat him in straight sets here in 2015, which was their most recent meeting on hard courts.
Roger Federer, seeded No. 3, faces No. 14 Stefanos Tsitsipas, the young Greek who won the ATP’s Next Gen competition in Milan in November. And the player seeded No. 4, Alexander Zverev, faces No. 16 Milos Raonic, who has already knocked out Nick Kyrgios and Stan Wawrinka en route to the second week.
Though all dangerous, none of those men face a challenge quite like the one that Serena Williams presents to Halep. Halep is 1-8 against Williams, with her lone win coming via a 6-0, 6-2 blitz in the round-robin stage of the 2014 WTA championships in Singapore. Williams avenged that loss, 6-3, 6-0, in the final days later.
Halep said she would be used to the pressure of facing Williams when they meet here on Monday and hoped she would able to play the same sort of assertive, proactive tennis she deployed against Venus.
“I’m in a good position,” she said. “I feel confident. I played very well today. But doesn’t mean it’s going to be the same against her. I will wait. I will focus on myself — it’s the most important thing.”
And Halep, who has kept a markedly positive attitude throughout the tournament, said there would be something positive resulting from the match, regardless of the outcome. “It’s always great to play against Serena,” she said. “Because every time, I have something to learn.”



Supported by
ByCindy Shmerler
DELRAY BEACH, Fla. — Before the start of every tennis match now, Stevie Johnson walks to the back of the court and squats down for a moment or two. Sometimes he says a little prayer. Often he gives himself an abbreviated pep talk.
Almost always he thinks of doing things the way his father wanted him to.
“I really just say a couple of words to myself to help me put everything in perspective,” said Johnson, 29, whose father, Steve, died of a heart attack at 58 nearly two years ago. “I tell myself to do things the right way and to treat people with respect. And I remind myself that tennis doesn’t define me.”
Johnson has had a hard time keeping tennis, and life, in perspective since May 2017, when his mother reached him by phone just as he was about to board a plane to Rome for the Italian Open and told him that his father had failed to wake up that morning.
Not only had his father taught Stevie how to play the game, he also sat in the stands for college matches at Southern California and for pro matches at Wimbledon and the United States Open. He witnessed his son’s first ATP pro titles in Nottingham, England, in 2016 and in Houston just weeks before his death.
Entering the Delray Beach Open, which began on Feb. 16, Johnson had not won a match since squandering a two-sets-to-one lead against ninth-seeded Dominic Thiem in the second round of last year’s U.S. Open.
Johnson had lost nine straight matches, including one against Borna Coric in the Americans’ Davis Cup semifinal loss to Croatia in September. He fell in the first round at last week’s New York Open to 154th-ranked Brayden Schnur, even though he served for the match and held two match points (Schnurwas the eventual tournament runner-up). After that loss, Johnson was despondent in the locker room.
When Johnson, seeded fourth in Delray, won his first match on Tuesday over a longtime friend and Southern California neighbor, 131st-ranked Jason Jung, he said, “I’m just glad to get the monkey off my back and not lose 10 straight.”
He followed that with a win over Paolo Lorenzi of Italy on Thursday but then lost in the quarterfinals to 82nd-ranked Radu Albot of Moldova, 1-6, 6-3, 7-6 (5). In that match, Johnson raced to a 5-0 lead in only 18 minutes, and then to a 6-1, 3-1 lead before Albot reeled off 12 of the next 15 points and five consecutive games. Johnson was two points from winning the match late in the third set, but Albot sneaked to the net for a backhand stab volley, and Johnson then hit a forehand wide on match point.
“It’s embarrassing,” he said. “It’s frustrating. I was up a set and a break, and I got tight. Thought I was on a good path, and then this. That’s the way life’s been going for me these days.”
Despite his five-month losing streak, Johnson’s ranking should stay near his current No. 34. He is the third-best American, behind No. 9 John Isner and No. 29 Frances Tiafoe, the defending Delray Beach champion, who lost in the first round here this year.
Losing has been a bitter pill, especially because he came so close to upsetting Thiem. But a rolled ankle midway through the second set contributed to the 3-hour-34-minute loss.
“I probably shouldn’t have even played after the U.S. Open,” Johnson said. “I just didn’t have any tennis left in me. Just all the traveling, from New York to L.A. to Croatia, back to L.A., then Asia and Europe. The way the schedule is, you feel like you need to play all the time, and I got into that trap. But that’s what you have to do when you play tennis; you have to earn it.
“I’m not an N.F.L. player who signs a lucrative four-year deal and then can take five months off, have a bad slump and then turn it around. Every week you have to prove yourself. If you have a bad six months, you can go from No. 8 in the world to No. 78, or worse.”
Johnson has been transparent about how difficult life has been since his father’s death. He often looks to his players’ box, only to see a glaring vacuum where his father used to sit. There are days when he still can’t bring himself to leave the house.
After a third-round loss to the eventual runner-up Marin Cilic at Wimbledon in 2017, he was so physically and emotionally spent that he developed a fever that lingered and landed him in the hospital. And after a three-set loss in the first round of the 2018 New York Open, he felt as if the ground was spinning, and he experienced shortness of breath that was attributed to anxiety.
That experience led Johnson to seek advice from Mardy Fish, a former top-10 player whose career was marked by bouts of anxiety. At the urging of his mother, Michelle, Johnson also sought help from a psychologist, someone he continues to see whenever he is home in Redondo Beach, Calif.
“Stevie’s mom has been instrumental to him,” said Johnson’s wife, Kendall, a former U.S.C. volleyball player who has been with him for almost seven years. “She’s paved the way with her own recovery and helps him put things into perspective. Even through his grieving, Stevie knows his father wouldn’t want him to struggle and that he would want him to keep playing.”
Craig Boynton, who has coached Johnson through much of his professional career, said he understood the danger of being sucked down a losing-run rabbit hole.
“The funny thing about streaks is that when they snowball the right way, you stop thinking and have great clarity in your execution of your shots,” Boynton said. “But when the streak is going the wrong way, there’s a tendency to overthink and doubt yourself. That takes away your focus from your execution. There’s no flow, and it creates drought or a rut, and that’s what Stevie’s been going through. One match can change things in either direction.”
After two wins in Delray Beach, there was finally a greater hop in Johnson’s step. But it does not mean he no longer has dark thoughts, no longer wonders whether he should even continue to play tennis.
“Some days it’s easy to fight through and enjoy it,” Johnson said. “But those hard days have been outweighing the good days at the moment.”
“It’s hard to fake the passion,” he added, choking on his words and using a towel to wipe away tears. “I mean, my father was such a big part of my tennis life. Tennis is just a weird dynamic for me right now. Every day is different. I mean, he should still be here watching me.”


Supported by
On Tennis
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — This is a story about Roger Federer’s third-round match. Only it is not about Roger Federer.
It is about a young upstart on the men’s tennis tour, a lanky power-hitting Californian who possesses skill and promise and a résumé stacked with solid but not spectacular results.
At Rod Laver Arena this Friday afternoon, the education of Taylor Fritz took a significant, though bruising, step forward. This was a graduate level course held in front of 15,000 fans, taught with calculating precision by a 37-year-old Swiss who has won 20 Grand Slam titles.
“Yes, a real lesson,” Fritz said, once the match was done. “I’m going to be better because of this match, I’ll tell you that.”
Fritz, who is 21 and considered to be one of the most promising players in the game, had come to this Australian Open match on the heels of the biggest Grand Slam victory of his career: a tense, hard-fought win over the 30th-seeded Frenchman Gaël Monfils.
After that match, though he was playing as confidently as he ever had, Fritz was cleareyed about his slim chances against an all-time great like Federer. He noted how his only previous meeting with Federer had been a battle that went to the later stage of a tight third set. Then Fritz had crumbled.
This time, though aware of the long odds against him, Fritz vowed to play loose and relaxed. “Have fun,” he said. “Play my game, hit big.” He wanted to soak up the moment, and learn.
At 1 p.m. on a muggy afternoon, Fritz finally took the court at Rod Laver Arena. He had never played there. He smiled tightly. He fidgeted with his brown hair and white headband. His mind raced.
“There were a lot of thoughts going on in my head,” he would explain, noting that he had simultaneously tried to pump himself up and find calm by listening to rap on his headphones as he strode before the fans.
Then the warm-up began. It was impossible to miss the fact that Fritz’s introduction took just a few seconds. When Federer’s followed, crackling over the public address system, it was a condensed version of the Swiss star’s achievements. Even shortened, it took a full minute.
Now the match was on, and it was clear from the beginning that Federer considered Fritz dangerous. He had reason to. In that one and only meeting, in Stuttgart, Germany, in the summer of 2016, Federer had emerged victorious, 6-4, 5-7, 6-4. Hardly smooth sailing. Federer seemed determined not to let Fritz get that close again.
So, from the start, Federer displayed the fullness of his range. There were sharp angles and booming drives. There were heavily spinning forehands followed by balls that cut flat against the hot air. It was a level of play Federer will need if he is to win this tournament for a third straight time, and a seventh over all.
“It’s been a long time since I have gotten a beat-down like that,” Fritz told me, unspooling the entire experience once it was done. “It didn’t feel great, not at all.”
The first set took 20 minutes. Federer: 6-1.
In the second set, Fritz fared better. He began using the leverage from his 6-foot-4-inch frame. With Federer serving, Fritz nudged ahead in a key game. Federer responded with a pair of scorching forehand winners and a curveball ace.
“I get any of those points and I have a break point, a chance to break him and a chance to serve for the set,” Fritz said.
There was resignation in his eyes. But also a glint of hope. “Look, with someone as good as Roger, you know that might be the only chance you get,” Fritz said. “I can see now that you have to take it.”
He certainly did soak up the moment. He loved every part of playing in front of a crowd that large. He tried a bit of showmanship, on one point faking as if he was going down the line, then hitting crosscourt. Problem was, Federer caught up to the ball, responded with a fake of his own and hit a winner.
Fritz had been posterized.
“I tried to play with him,” he said, “and, well, he played me back.”
Then he spoke of his last stand. Of trying to simply survive. “Regroup, hold serve, hold serve,” he said he kept telling himself, like a mantra.
It didn’t work. Everyone could feel it, most notably his opponent. “Federer was rolling,” Fritz said. “I’ve seen it so many times before, on TV. Once he is in front, he smothers you.”
The end was inevitable. The final score: 6-2, 7-5, 6-2.
Next up for Federer is the round of 16, and another dangerous young player: Stefanos Tsitsipas, a 20-year-old from Greece, part of a group of 23-and-under men making waves in Melbourne. The American Frances Tiafoe, who turns 21 on Sunday, is in the fourth round of a major for the first time after followinghis upset of fifth-seeded Kevin Andersonwith a five-set win over Andreas Seppi on Friday.
Taylor Fritz, meantime, will return to California, itching for more center courts, more Grand Slam tournaments, more matches against the very best. Against Federer, he experienced aspects of tennis that, if copied, will add significantly to his growth. How to disrupt timing. When to use angles. The way pouncing on the slimmest openings can change tone.
“This was such a learning experience for me,” he said. “I plan to take it and get better, get more comfortable in these moments, so I can play the way I know I can play. I plan to use this as a steppingstone.”



Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
Another season of Grand Slam tennis begins at the Australian Open on Monday, but Agnieszka Radwanska, who retired in November, won’t be part of it.
Aptly called “The Ninja” for her ability to inflict out-of-nowhere pain on the opposition from all manner of contortionist positions, Radwanska’s spectacular, poker-faced shotmaking will be missed.
But even without its Ninja, the women’s game is in a memorable phase when it comes to entertainment value and players with an uncommon touch.
At the moment and probably not for long, the tour is a clash of generations with Serena Williams, 37, and Venus Williams, 38, still in the mix along with midcareer champions like Angelique Kerber, 30, and Caroline Wozniacki, 28, and the new wave led by Naomi Osaka, 21, the Japanese sensation who upset Serena Williams to win the United States Open last year. It is rare to see such a range of players clashing with the outcomes so uncertain.
The tour has geographical breadth with players from the United States, Europe, Asia and Australia all in the top 20 and with Ons Jabeur, 24, of Tunisia in the top 60 after last year, becoming the first Arab woman to reach a WTA final.
But there is another strong and too often undervalued selling point: stylistic variety. Though serious baseline power remains the most popular and fail-safe route to stardom, players with subtler, more creative games are also finding a way to win consistently, just as Radwanska, a former world No. 2 and Wimbledon finalist, did before her injuries.
Several of these tennis “artists” will be seeded at the Australian Open: No. 10 Daria Kasatkina of Russia, No. 13 Anastasija Sevastova of Latvia, No. 15 Ashleigh Barty of Australia, and No. 28 Hsieh Su-wei of Taiwan, a 33-year-old whose double-handed, frequently off-speed strokes are as crafty as they come. There is also Jabeur, still an outsider but whose game is a crowd-pleasing mix of baseline punch, feathery touch and Federer-esque flourishes.
“There will always be exceptions to the power players,” said Paul McNamee, the former Australian men’s star who advises Hsieh. “The players you refer to, however, all have one thing in common: exceptional hands. They have amazing touch, and this is why they can survive even if they have less raw power.”
That hardly means they have none. Barty, despite being 5-foot-5 and shorter than most of her rivals, generates the leg drive and racket-head speed to hit big serves and forehands. Her crisply sliced backhand has unusual bite, and she has perhaps the best net game in the sport.
“The plan to get to the net more often is a focus for 2019,” said Craig Tyzzer, her coach. “Ash certainly benefits from playing more doubles than most of the other singles girls, but her volley skills were certainly developed from an early age, which is a massive advantage.”
Kasatkina has a heavy topspin forehand that she can flatten out to create more pace when she requires it.
But what distinguishes the members of the WTA’s creative class from their peers is the size of their tool set and the range of their tactical options. Their success has meant more matchups that feature contrasting styles: important to the appeal of a game where patterns have a tendency to repeat.
“Tennis is a game of chess, of tactics,” said Philippe Dehaes, Kasatkina’s coach, who has emerged as one of the tour’s leading mentors and motivators. “You have to vary zones and trajectories and find the answer suited to what your opponent is doing. To have women who play well tactically and who can keep the ball in play, while varying and creating, makes the show much more interesting for people, in my opinion.”
It is not the contrast that tennis once regularly offered. When Martina Navratilova was attacking the net in the 1970s and 1980s against her baseline-hugging archrival Chris Evert and others, the gulf between styles and tennis philosophies was much wider.
“When you had serve-and-volleyers going against baseliners, that was more of a complete and obvious contrast,” said Tracy Austin, the precocious champion who faced Navratilova frequently. “But in this day and age where the game has become homogenized, we’re looking for any contrast. It’s not as extreme as it used to be, but that’s why Hsieh Su-wei is fun to watch, because you feel like you can see the wheels turning in her mind as to where to place the ball, the geometry of the court. So many players use left and right, and she uses north and south as well.”
Hsieh is constantly changing depth: shifting her target from the backcourt to the forecourt as she mixes in drop shots, angled volleys and sliced and flat groundstrokes.
“Her hands can redirect a shot in either direction on both wings with pinpoint accuracy,” McNamee said. “That’s not normal.”
But outlier fast-twitch defensive skills are required to thrive in an era of abundant power and athleticism, of taller, stronger opposition with superior leverage like Petra Kvitova, Garbine Muguruza, Karolina Pliskova, Madison Keys and the ascendant Aryna Sabalenka.
“I try to do something else than the normal,” said Sevastova, a U.S. Open semifinalist last year whose trademark is the drop shot. “I think it’s important, and it’s my style. It’s not like I don’t have power. I just don’t have that much. But I can handle their pace and hit the ball quickly, and I like variety.”
Dehaes sees more women being able to survive the onslaught.
“I think that has always been the case, but in the last few years we saw it a bit less,” he said. “I think the equipment played a big role, and there was the evolution of women’s tennis with players becoming stronger physically and better technically. Because everyone trains a lot and everyone trains well, which was not always the case in former times. So with more athletic players and more high-performance equipment, the pace of the game accelerated. But I think now the girls are getting used to it and are more able to counter the games of these super-powerful players.”
Tennis’s recent honor roll confirms that. Three of the four Grand Slam singles titles last year went to counterpunchers: the No. 1 player, Simona Halep, and Kerber and Wozniacki, all of whom have long had speed and defensive skills, but who also have focused on improving their serves and learning to embrace risk selectively.
“Honestly, it could be just 15 percent more aggression that can make the difference,” Austin said. “You are just robbing your opponent of a little bit of time on certain shots.”
Martin Blackman, general manager of player development at the United States Tennis Association, says he believes that “we will see more and more complete players on the women’s side.”
Purer power players are also trying to broaden their range. In her late teens, Osaka clearly had potent groundstrokes and a penetrating serve. But she did not make the leap to Grand Slam champion until she lost weight in 2018 and improved her explosive movement, agility and defensive skills with help from her new coach, Sascha Bajin, and her fitness coach, Abdul Sillah.
“She’s pulled back some; Sascha’s got her thinking more on the court rather than just see ball, hit ball,” Austin said. “Now, she’s fit enough and aware enough and realizes, ‘O.K., this is a red-light ball. I have to get the point back to neutral.’ Or ‘this is a green-light ball, and I can go big.’”
The artists are also at work on finding the time to use their brushes.
“My challenge with Dasha,” said Dehaes, using Kasatkina’s nickname, “is to help her find a way to stay in the rally even under great pressure, and at a certain moment, the right moment, make the difference with a variation. But it’s not easy to vary when you play someone like Sabalenka, who hits every ball very hard from everywhere without much theory. It’s very hard to counter this kind of woman.”
Perhaps impossible when a true power player is on target.
“If you have Serena and she’s at the top of her game, I still say that power is always going to win,” Austin said. “I don’t know if Sabalenka is 10 to 15 percent away from that top level or maybe just two weeks away, but when she’s all cylinders firing, I still think she’s going to take out the Kasatkinas, the Sevastovas, the Bartys. But let me tell you. If you’re off a little bit and your timing is messed up a little bit by those combinations — topspin, slice, short, deep — it’s a whole new ballgame.”
Supported by
ByRavi Ubha
After spending 2018 rapidly ascending the global tennis ranks, Aryna Sabalenka decided to spend some of her brief off-season in free fall. So during a winter visit to Dubai, Sabalenka said, she took the opportunity to bungee jump from 41 floors up.
“These three seconds before you jump, it’s like something unbelievable,” Sabalenka, a 20-year-old Belarusian, said in a recent telephone interview. “You want to cry, smile and laugh.”
The daring off-season activity underscored the intensity and cheerfulness that came to define Sabalenka as she burst onto the scene last year, winning her first two WTA titles.
“She’s always very friendly,” said her coach, Dmitry Tursunov. “She likes to be in a good mood.”
She also likes to win, and she has started where she left off after her breakthrough campaign, becoming the first WTA titlist of 2019 by defeating Alison Riske, 4-6, 7-6 (2), 6-3, in the final of the tournament in Shenzhen, China, on Saturday.
Now Sabalenka can add one more label: dark horse to win the Australian Open, where she could establish herself not just as an up-and-comer but as one of the sport’s pacesetters.
“I’m telling you here, right now, that the winner of the Australian Open women’s side is going to be Sabalenka, O.K.?” the ESPN analyst Patrick McEnroe told reporters this week. “She’s going to win the Australian Open.”
The title in Shenzhen helped her return to a career-best ranking of No. 11 on the eve of the year’s first Grand Slam tournament. And despite a stumble at her next tournament — a first-round loss to eighth-ranked Petra Kvitova in Sydney — Sabalenka’s recent tear has put her on more than one list of Australian Open favorites.
“If you look at the top 20 players, especially with her age, she is probably the most dangerous one right now because of the power,” said Sophie Amiach, a former Australian Open quarterfinalist in singles and doubles who is now an analyst for the WTA’s world feed.
“Besides the given, Serena, everybody else, the power is there, but I don’t think it’s as much as what she has,” Amiach added, referring to Serena Williams, who is seeking to equal Margaret Court’s record of 24 Grand Slam singles titles.
But the overwhelming force that has fueled Sabalenka’s rise can also be difficult to harness at times. Her serves and forehands can misfire by yards, and her shot selection is sometimes questionable. Seesaw matches proved a mainstay for Sabalenka in 2018, leading to a WTA-high 29 third sets contested.
That inconsistency might have been what prompted a bit of criticism from President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko of Belaruswhen he met Sabalenka in November.
“I am happy with your performance,” he was quoted saying by the news agency BeITA, “except for several moments when the ball went out of court while you could keep it in the game.”
But like her fellow rising starNaomi Osaka,21, Sabalenka has started to rein in her game while still blasting winners. It helped Sabalenka, the only player to take a set off Osaka during her run to the United States Open title last fall, rise to No. 13 by the end of 2018 after beginning the year ranked 73rd. Her eight wins over top-10 players last year — all after June — placed her behind only Kiki Bertens and Elina Svitolina.
And Sabalenka toppled Svitolina, the eventual champion at the WTA Finals in October, on the way to her biggest title, in Wuhan, China, a month earlier.
“She is a quick learner, but I feel also she is a quick learner because she is passionate about it and wants to do it,” said Tursunov, who used a similarly powerful style to win seven ATP titles in his career. “And I think that kind of summarizes her improvement.”
Before he became Sabalenka’s coach during the summer grass-court swing last year, Tursunov had already been impressed by his future charge’s performance and attitude as he observed her on tour.
At last year’s tournament in Indian Wells, Calif., Tursunov looked on as the player he was then coaching, Elena Vesnina, faced Sabalenka and her countrywoman Victoria Azarenka in a doubles match with Ekaterina Makarova. Vesnina and Makarova, the tournament’s top seeds, prevailed, 6-4, 6-3.
“She didn’t get fazed when she was being rifled at,” Tursunov said, “and a few times they were just going at her and knocked her down on her butt. She was kind of sitting and giggling.”
He added: “Those are the things that just kind of stuck in my mind. The way she was handling tough situations, and situations where she was being outplayed.”
Sabalenka attributes some of that mental toughness to her roots in Belarus. Money was scarce, so she did not compete in any junior Grand Slam events and participated in just four tournaments outside Europe.
“I could play tennis, but no one believed in me that much,” Sabalenka said. “Actually I think this kind of thing helped me to improve my game.
“Before, I was actually upset with it. They think I am not the best player, and it made me work extra hard and improve my game.”
It was with the Belarusian Fed Cup team, however, that Sabalenka emerged on the broader scene, in 2017. Belarus advanced to the final, with Sabalenka and Aliaksandra Sasnovich falling to the Americans Shelby Rogers and CoCo Vandeweghe in the deciding doubles match in Minsk.
Even as her ranking climbs and her goals become loftier, Sabalenka said she did not intend to skip the Fed Cup series. Her energy seems to resonate throughout the squad.
“She is always fighting, so when playing on a team with her, you just cannot go down, because you are just getting involved in this flow she creates,” Vera Lapko, her fellow 20-year-old Belarusian, said in an email.
Neither that grit nor the smiles will escape Sabalenka anytime soon.
“I’m smiling and laughing,” she said. “I don’t want to be too serious because this is not me.”
Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the result of a match between Aryna Sabalenka and Kiki Bertens in Fed Cup in 2017. Sabalenka held a match point against Bertens; she did not win the match. And the match was in the first round, not the semifinals.


Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — After another day of big serves and topspin forehands in the desert sunshine, just about everyone appeared to get what they wanted: a 39th match between Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal.
The question is, will it actually happen?
Federer, despite being the elder at 37, looks readier to rumble. Between Dubai and Indian Wells, he has won nine straight matches and 15 straight sets and artfully and uneventfully dispatched the unseeded Hubert Hurkacz, 6-4, 6-4, in Friday’s first quarterfinal of the BNP Paribas Open.
But Nadal had to dig much deeper to wriggle free of the firm grip and aggressive game of Karen Khachanov, the brawny young Russian who pushed him hard in the third round of last year’s United States Open.
This time, Nadal prevailed, 7-6 (2), 7-6 (2), but only after Khachanov stretched him repeatedly with huge serves and whipping forehands and only after Nadal needed on-court treatment and tape for pain in his long-troublesome right knee.
And there lies the problem with planning your day or, depending on the time zone, your night around watching No. 39.
Nadal remains one of the greatest, in-the-moment competitors in any sport, but his recent record in hardcourt tournaments is a downbeat litany of withdrawals, retirements and anticlimaxes.
It remains an open question if he will feel hearty enough to play Saturday afternoon’s semifinal. He does not have a day off to recover. He also has the rest of the 2019 season to consider, including his sacrosanct season within a season on clay that is scheduled to start next month in Monte Carlo.
“Of course my goal and my idea is to be ready for tomorrow,” Nadal said after pursing his lips and shaking his head.
But he also knows from long experience with patellar tendinitis that being ready is no sure thing.
“I cannot guarantee how I will feel when I wake up tomorrow,” he said. “But the desire to play a match like this against Federer is always very special, and it’s even more special if we’re both at a high level and at 100 percent. Hopefully it will be that way, above all for me but also for the fans on site and for fans in general. I hope I will be able to play aggressively. I need to be ready to react very quickly and to have everything in place to be able to succeed. If not, it will be very difficult.”
Nadal and Federer first played in Miami in 2004, but they have not met since October 2017, when Federer beat Nadal in the final of the Shanghai Masters. Federer went 5-0 against Nadal in 2017, a resurgent season for both men, after upgrading his ability to attack with his single-handed backhand.
That run of success has narrowed the big edge that Nadal once held in their rivalry; he now leads by 23-15.
“I don’t think those five matches matter that much, to be honest,” Federer said of the 2017 victories. “A lot of time has gone by, unfortunately maybe for the rivalry for us, or for me. It’s always better to keep on maybe playing against him.”
Federer started this season by failing to retain his title at the Australian Open but has responded by going on a roll. After winning his 100th career title in Dubai, Federer is now two victories from his 101st. To get there, he may first have to deal with the man who has been his friendly rival for 15 years and who remains a friend: The two had coffee at Federer’s rented home last week to discuss the state of the tennis world.
“Different styles, different ways to understand the sport,” Nadal said. “And at the same time, two players with a good relationship after all the things that we went through in our careers, competing for the most important things.”
In his first match against Hurkacz, a rangy and powerful 22-year-old from Poland, Federer looked loose from the start as he tested the full range of his skill set.
There was the usual: wickedly sliced backhands, blocked returns and first serve-forehand combination punches. There was also the unusual: chip and charge tactics, serve-and-volley on second serve and no-look flicked backhand overheads.
But it will be hard to be quite so relaxed and experimental against Nadal, whose ability (when healthy) to extend rallies and take command of them with his left-handed, topspin forehand is an entirely different, though much more familiar, challenge.
The two did not play any of the same regular ATP Tour events in 2018, and they did not face off in the three Grand Slam tournaments that they both played: the Australian Open, Wimbledon and the United States Open.
Federer was asked if, after all these years, the matchup with Nadal still gave him more of a thrill than facing an unknown rising player.
“I think a combination,” he said. “If it was only Rafa, I wouldn’t enjoy that as well. I think having the mix is the magic really for me. Playing against young guys to eventually get to Rafa, that’s exciting.”
It was quite an achievement for Nadal to get to Federer through the 22-year-old Khachanov. He was visibly hampered by his knee trouble, which first required treatment on court with Khachanov leading by 2-1 in the second set. Visibly slower and unable to push off as powerfully with his legs to serve, he still found a way to grind and win.
“It’s a special victory considering the way I was feeling,” Nadal said.
Playing with pain has unfortunately become close to the rule on hardcourts for Nadal, who has long complained and warned about the physical toll of hardcourt play.
Nadal, 32, conceded that part of the problem was playing more than 1,100 matches in his career, not just playing on hardcourts. But he also pointed out that other sports tended to be played regularly on grass or on other more forgiving surfaces.
“I love to play on hard, but probably my body doesn’t love it that much,” he said. “And my feeling is there are a lot of players that love to play on hard, true, but their bodies don’t love to play on hard, either.”
He is also concerned about the price he and others might pay in retirement. “When I see some old legends walking around the tour,” he said, “it’s tough.”



Supported by
ByBen Rothenberg
MELBOURNE, Australia — Serena Williams was one point from the Australian Open semifinals when she lost her footing and the match slipped away.
Williams, who was seeking a record-tying 24th Grand Slam singles title, lost the final six games to fall, 6-4, 4-6, 7-5, to Karolina Pliskova on Wednesday, relinquishing her lead after rolling her left ankle when the match was within her reach.
“I was almost in the locker room, but now I’m standing here as a winner,” Pliskova said in her on-court interview after the match. “So it’s a really good feeling.”
Williams, known more for improbable comebacks than collapses, had not lost a Grand Slam match after holding a match point since the 2010 French Open.
Pliskova, the No. 7 seed, will face the fourth-seeded Naomi Osaka in the semifinals on Thursday. The other semifinal pits the eighth-seeded Petra Kvitova against the unseeded American Danielle Collins.
This was Williams’s fourth major tournament since resuming her career in 2018 after the birth of her daughter, Alexis Olympia Ohanian Jr., in September 2017. Williams withdrew before the fourth round of last year’s French Open because of an injury and lost in two other Grand Slam finals — to Anqelique Kerber at Wimbledon and to Osaka at the United States Open in a matchremembered primarily for Williams’s confrontation with the chair umpire, which cost her a game penalty.
Williams, who dispatched the top-seeded Simona Halep in a hard-fought, fourth-round match, has not defeated two top-10 players at the same event since returning from her pregnancy. She has spoken candidly about her struggles to return to peak physical condition after giving birth, and she arrived here looking fitter than she had since before her pregnancy.
Williams, 37, has not reached for excuses, even when she has struggled in ways she had not before leaving the tour to become a mother.
“From Day 1, I expect to go out and, quite frankly, to win,” Williams said. “That hasn’t happened. But I do like my attitude. I like that I don’t want to go out here and say, ‘I expect to lose because I had a year off, I’ve been playing for 10 months, I’m not supposed to win.’ I don’t have that attitude.”
While Williams’s mind-set has been positive, on Wednesday her body betrayed her and the match suddenly pivoted in Pliskova’s favor.
Her match turned in an instant. With a commanding 5-1 lead in the third set, the 16th-seeded Williams held a match point on her serve, at 40-30. But after she was called for a foot fault on her first serve, Williams appeared to sustain an injury in the rally that began off her second serve, rolling her left ankle as she tried to change directions to reach a shot from Pliskova.
Williams lost the point, and then the next two points. She did not call a medical timeout on the ensuing changeover, but she retied her shoelaces, making them tighter.
“I really hate calling the trainer out, to be honest,” she said. “And at that point I didn’t feel like I needed it or I didn’t feel like it would be a big deal. So I just kept going.”
But the tighter shoes did not keep her in the match. Pliskova won the next two games, pulling to 4-5, suddenly back on serve. Williams earned three more match points in the 10th game, but Pliskova saved them all.
“I thought, ‘All right, here we go, you’re going to win one of these,’” Williams said. “That clearly didn’t happen, but I was just trying at that point.”
Pliskova held on to make it 5-5 with a backhand cross-court winner, punctuated with a loud and long scream.
“Then, suddenly, I got a chance too,” Pliskova said of her improbable victory after facing four match points. “That’s how it is in tennis. You need luck, of course, because this is — I think — not happening often. Maybe once in life. But I went for it.”
Williams, who like all right-handers lands on her left foot when she serves, lost all 10 remaining points on her serve after the injury. While she said she would not know how bad her ankle injury was until a day later, she played down the effect of the injury on the outcome of the match, repeatedly giving Pliskova credit for playing “lights out” tennis as she surged back.
“I think she just played well on my serve after that point,” Williams said. “I think she just kind of started playing really, really good. I don’t think it had anything to do with my ankle, per se. I just think she was just nailing and hitting shots. Obviously I made some mistakes, but she played really well after that.”
Pliskova said she thought something might have happened to Williams, but that she remained focused on her own side of the court.
“Whatever is happening on the other side, I just try to block it,” Pliskova said. “Either it’s positive or negative, whatever is there, it’s just not my business. I’m sorry, but that’s how it is. I know once I’m starting to think about that, it’s bad.”
Pliskova won the next two games to complete the improbable comeback, winning after Williams hit a forehand into the net for an unforced error on her third match point.
Pliskova, a former No. 1, had knocked Williams out of a Grand Slam event before, beating her in straight sets in the 2016 United States Open semifinals. She had looked on track for a similarly efficient victory when she broke Williams for a 3-2 lead in the second set.
But Williams roared back, breaking Pliskova at love in the next game, beginning a stretch of winning 9 of 11 games and taking complete command of the match before her late collapse.
Pliskova, whose appearance in the 2016 United States Open final was her only previous major title match, has won two of her previous three matches against Osaka. She most recently beat her 6-4, 6-4 in the final of the WTA tournament in Tokyo in September.
Osaka, 21, will be seeking a second straight Grand Slam title. She reached the semifinals with a 6-4, 6-1 victory over the sixth-seeded Elina Svitolina.
Osaka, who had never reached the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam before her triumph in New York last fall, said she was keeping this accomplishment in perspective.
“To be here is something that a lot of people want, and I know that a few months ago I would have given anything to be in the semifinals of a slam,” Osaka said. “But it’s this weird feeling of: You want to do the next big thing. And especially now that I won a Grand Slam, and I feel like I want to win another one, and I’m so close and I just want to keep going.”
Osaka and Kvitova could each claim the No. 1 ranking for the first time if they win the tournament on Saturday. After pulling herself from the brink of defeat, Pliskova also has a chance to return to the No. 1 ranking with a victory, even if she had begun to count herself out of the tournament when she was one point from defeat.
“My mind was in the locker room,” Pliskova said. “I was still here.”
For Williams, who has the trophy as her goal every time she arrives at a Grand Slam event, her quest to match Margaret Court’s 24 singles Grand Slam titles will resume at the French Open in May.
”I mean, the big picture for me is always winning,” Williams said. “I’m not going to sit here and lie about that. It hasn’t happened yet, but I feel like it’s going to happen. Just keep taking it one match at a time, just keep soldiering on, I guess.”
Karen Crouse contributed reporting.


Supported by
ByKurt Streeter
MELBOURNE, Australia — The first point of the Australian Open men’s final on Sunday told the story of all that was to come.
With his opening serve, Novak Djokovic stretched Rafael Nadal wide, sending the Spaniard sprawling. Djokovic quickly had his longtime rival exactly where he wanted: off balance and unglued.
In a flash, as Nadal spun 360 degrees and scrambled to recover, Djokovic took a half-dozen confident steps forward. He lined up a backhand and then unleashed a buzzing winner that Nadal did not even try for.
Point won. Point made. Rafael Nadal: toast.
The match, held at Rod Laver Arena on a warm and slightly breezy evening, finished just 2 hours 4 minutes later, Djokovic winning in a full-blown knockout, 6-3, 6-2, 6-3.
This was a win that tightened the 31-year-old Serb’s hold on the top spot in men’s tennis. It also elevated his name once again in the annals of tennis history. He now has a record seven Australian Open titles and has moved to sole possession of third place for major titles, with 15, breaking a tie with Pete Sampras.
The three powerhouse sets were as fine and dominating as Djokovic — or anyone — has ever played in a major tournament final.
“It ranks right at the top,” Djokovic said, assessing his performance at a news conference. “At this level, under these circumstances, it was truly a perfect match.”
He could not have seen this coming. Nobody could.
Djokovic versus Nadal, No. 1 vs. No. 2, was arguably the most anticipated match of the tournament. It was the first occasion in which these two tense rivals — who have now played 53 times on tour, with Djokovic winning 28 — had met in the finals of a Grand Slam event since 2014, when Nadal slipped by Djokovic in four sets at Roland Garros in Paris.
Given the scintillating way both had performed throughout the tournament, with Nadal winning every set he played in his first six matches and with Djokovic winning all but two, it seemed certain that they would duel once again deep into the Melbourne night.
It was a match that was expected to dust off hallowed memories of what might have been their greatest combined moment of glory. In 2012, the two played one of the most epic finals in Grand Slam history, right on Laver’s sea-blue center court:a 5-hour-53-minute marathonwon by Djokovic, the longest major final ever.
But a reprise was not to be. What unfolded was not even a reasonable facsimile.
Still, the night had its own way of being unforgettable. The final failed to offer drama, but it did present beauty — that of a top-flight athlete, among tennis’s greatest champions, operating at the very peak of his powers.
“Things started so quick,” Nadal said, snapping his fingers twice to emphasize the point. “He was pushing me to every ball. He played so well. He hit so long. His return was fantastic. He was super quick.”
Nadal, 32, did not appear particularly downcast after the match. Instead, it seemed as if he had simply resigned himself to the result. He noted that he had been injured and had not been able to prepare for the tournament as he had wished. Indeed, after pulling out of his semifinal match at the United States Open last September and then having ankle surgery, he had not played a match on tour until this tournament began.
But he also allowed that there had been nothing he could really do on Sunday against Djokovic, saying it “was unbelievable, the way that he played, no doubt about that.”
Djokovic made only nine unforced errors. He lost just one point on his serve in the first set. He aggressively shortened every rally he could, keeping them to an average of five shots, a stunningly low number considering the long-distance finals he and Nadal have slugged out in the past. Riding pinpoint accuracy and depth, he so flummoxed Nadal that the Spaniard once swung and whiffed on a forehand.
Nadal, whose tally for major titles remains at 17, three behind Roger Federer’s record, threw all he could muster at the match, especially as it drained from his grip. He worked in as many drop shots as he could. He altered positioning on his returns. He moved early, trying to guess which way Djokovic was serving.
Nothing worked.
Djokovic led early in every stanza and never looked back. There was no tension. The match was shorter by 23 minutes thanSaturday’s stirring women’s finalbetween Naomi Osaka and Petra Kvitova, which also unfolded in three sets but was blessed by tension at every turn.
“For me, one of the most important objectives for the match was to start off well and bring the intensity and make sure that he also feels my presence,” said Djokovic, who looked remarkably calm and centered, both during the match and afterward. “He always makes sure that the opponent across the net feels his presence. That is how he plays. That’s how he behaves. He brings so much energy, jumping around, sprinting.
“It was crucial for me to start off with an early break. Having a set under my belt just made me relax a bit more, not really worry too much. After that, it was smooth.”
Smooth. Perfect summary.
It was a rare lopsided Grand Slam final between men’s tennis greats, reminiscent ofNadal’s wipeout of Federerat the 2008 French Open andJohn McEnroe’s rout of Jimmy Connorsat Wimbledon in 1984.
But it should not be forgotten how far the two came to get to the finals, the hurdles overcome. There is Nadal with his injuries, which have piled up over the years, especially on hard courts. There is Djokovic with the way he struggled with his confidence and his health after winning the French Open in 2016. For two full tennis seasons, it felt as if he was lost in the wilderness, in matches including afourth-round lossat Melbourne Park last year to the unseeded South Korean Hyeon Chung.
Djokovic underwent elbow surgery not long after that match. At first, the operation did not help his on-court results. He appeared to be a doubting and unhappy shadow of his self. Improbably, he found his game on the Wimbledon grass,winning the title thereand then following that up with another championship at the U.S. Open in September.
According to the International Tennis Federation, Djokovic is the first man to record three streaks of three or more Grand Slam titles in a row. He won four straight from Wimbledon in 2015 to the 2016 French Open, and three in a row from Wimbledon in 2011 to the 2012 Australian Open.
His chance to hold all four major titles at the same time will come in four months at the French Open, which he has won only once (Nadal has been the champion at Roland Garros 11 times).
Sustain this level through the United States Open, and it is not impossible to imagine him winning a calendar-year Grand Slam. No man has done that since Rod Laver in 1969.
And what about reaching Federer’s record 20 Grand Slam titles?
Asked about those milestones on Sunday, Djokovic was his typically reflective self.
“I am aware that making history of the sport that I truly love is something special,” he said.
He then gave a nod to the kind of uncertainty that he knows very well, firsthand: the way injuries and loss of confidence can shake the very best of foundations. There are no sure bets.
“How many seasons are to come? I don’t know,” he added, noting that he was trying hard not to get too far ahead of himself. “I do want to definitely focus myself on continuing to improve so I would be able to compete at such a high level for the years to come — and have a shot at eventually getting closer to Roger’s record.
“It’s still far.”
True, but if he keeps playing in the fluid, focused way he did on this Sunday evening in Melbourne, 20 Grand Slams will come into focus soon enough.




Supported by
ByDavid Waldstein
UNIONDALE, N.Y. — The second edition of the New York Open concluded on Sunday with a pair of unexpected players engaging in a tense and memorable final that provided enough excitement to make up for the lack of star power.
The organizers of the event, which moved to Long Island last year after 40 years in Memphis, might have hoped for more marketable names to highlight the tournament’s final days to help lift the profile of the tour stop.
After all, neither Reilly Opelka nor Brayden Schnur were among the seven players featured on the promotional posters used to advertise the tournament’s return to the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum. But Opelka and Schnur provided plenty of buzz for the 3,128 fans who showed up for the final.
The tension peaked with a nerve-racking replay after a challenge on the 15th point of the third-set tiebreaker. On the next point, Opelka finished off Schnur, 6-1, 6-7 (7), 7-6 (7), for his first ATP Tour-level title.
Opelka, 21, has won challenger tournaments at the lower levels of the professional tour, and he won the juniors title at Wimbledon in 2015. But this was the breakthrough he and many of his supporters had anticipated for some time.
“This is definitely my biggest title yet, the one I’m most proud of, for sure,” Opelka said. “It’s been a lot of years coming.”
It did not come easy. Schnur saved five match points and appeared to have a match point of his own when he served what seemed to be an ace at 7-7 in the tiebreaker of the decisive set. But Opelka challenged the call, and the serve was ruled out by perhaps a millimeter.
Schnur, who had never even won an ATP Tour-level match before arriving in New York (he was 0 for 5), then missed his second serve for a double fault. At 8-7, Opelka ripped an ace out wide to win the match.
“That challenge was probably the difference in the match,” Opelka said.
At 6 feet 11 inches with a booming serve, Opelka is expected to rise to No. 56 from No. 89 when the new rankings come out. Sunday’s result will also bolster his status as a potential heir to John Isner, the current top-ranked American male player, whom Opelka has beaten twice in a row.
Opelka downed the top-seeded Isner in their hard-hitting semifinal encounter Saturday night as the two set a record with 81 combined aces in a three-set match. That was a repeat ofOpelka’s surprise victory over the 6-10 Isnerin the first round of the Australian Open last month.
Opelka’s close victory on the black wooden courts at the Coliseum denied Schnur, a 23-year-old from Canada, what would have been an even more improbable victory.
A qualifier with a head cold, Schnur arrived in New York last week without a guaranteed spot in the draw.
He had reached a career-high ranking of 154th leading up to the New York Open, but he nearly didn’t get to play a single point here. He was granted the last alternate spot in the qualifying draw, and he won two matches there to advance to the main draw. There he upset the third-seeded Steve Johnson and the sixth-seeded Sam Querrey as he earned four straight victories to reach the final.
Though generally unknown, Schnur, a former college player at the University of North Carolina who was born in Pickering, Ontario, has one attribute that will endear him to those who want pro tennis to speed up: He does not bounce the ball before serving. Most players bounce it at least a few times, and some, like Rafael Nadal, sometimes bounce it repeatedly, to the chagrin of some opponents and spectators.
Schnur stands at the baseline, waits for his opponent to get into the ready position, and then simply tosses the ball into the air and slams away. He started doing it that way, he said, while playing on the uneven grass at warm-up tournaments ahead of Wimbledon. Schnur said the unpredictable bounces left him scrambling to catch up to the ball and adversely affected his rhythm.
The emotions of the breakthrough week seemed to catch up to Schnur on Sunday as he fought back tears in his postmatch speech to fans and later during his news conference.
“Only a handful of people know how hard I really worked for this,” he said. “I’m not the most talented guy out on the court.”
Schnur’s and Opelka’s paths to the final were relatively smooth, as the Open’s field of players didn’t include many of the world’s top-ranked individuals. But attendance was up compared with last year, according to Josh Ripple, the tournament director, both over all and for the final; in last year’s final, Kevin Anderson beat Querrey.
“We did better by every metric,” Ripple said, “including attendance and revenue, and 2020 will be the pivotal year for us.”
If Opelka comes back, he probably will make it onto the poster.

Supported by
ByKaren Crouse
MELBOURNE, Australia — The beginning of a calendar year normally would seem a strange time to be preoccupied with endings. But when Andy Murray tearfullyannounced his impending retirementbecause of a deteriorating right hip in a pretournament news conference, the Australian Open underwent a jarring mood swing, from the so-called Happy Slam to a major dominated by talk about pain management and the sometimes extraordinary measures required to prolong careers.
The Hospice Slam, anyone?
The 31-year-old Murray, a three-time major winner, missed the tournament last year because of hip surgery that did not alleviate his suffering. On Monday, he valiantly battled the pain and his opponent, Roberto Bautista Agut, for more than four hours beforelosing in five sets.
Rafael Nadal, 32, who secured a spot in the second round against Matthew Ebden, described how his crumbling knees and various other injuries have forced him to adjust his practice schedule based on his “body feelings” and to adopt a faster, more aggressive serve to try to shorten points.
The five-time major winner Maria Sharapova, 31, easily dispatched Harriet Dart, then spoke about how the shoulder pain that has plagued her for 10 years forced her to accept the fact that “you’re not immortal; you’re never going to play this forever.”
Then there was Caroline Wozniacki, who is still in her twenties but already managing her own health crisis. Wozniacki, 28, returned to Rod Laver Arena for her first-round match against Alison Van Uytvanck looking outwardly the same as she did when she outlasted Simona Halep on the same stage last year to win her first Grand Slam title.
Wozniacki ran down drop shots and prevailed in most of the rallies of more than nine shots in a 6-3, 6-4 victory that belied the extra effort now required for her to maintain her competitive edge. Last summer Wozniackilearned she had rheumatoid arthritis, a condition linked to immune system dysfunction. As Wozniacki explained it, her immune system attacks healthy tissue in and around the joints of her hands, knees and feet, causing rashes, inflammation and fatigue.
The diagnosis forced Wozniacki to overhaul her routine to include more massages, less (or at least smarter) tennis, more rest, less sugar, more stretching and less jogging.
“You listen to the body, you try different things,” she said, adding: “There are days I wake up and don’t feel great, and when that happens, I’m still going to go out there and do my thing, but I’m going to taper it down. And I know in my head I don’t need to go full-out today and it’s going to make me feel worse tomorrow. I’ve matured a lot. That’s never how I used to think.”
It’s remarkable to hear so many prominent players give voice to their vulnerabilities. As Murray acknowledged, “When you’re going to compete, you want to be positive and optimistic about things because you don’t want to be telling your opponents, the guys you’re competing against, how bad you’re feeling.”
His Friday news conference announcing his retirement, he added, “was kind of the first time I kind of came out and let everyone know how bad it’s been and tough.”
Wozniacki was the same way. She knew before last year’s United States Open that the flulike symptoms that had plagued her all summer were, in fact, signs of something more serious. But she said nothing about her condition for two months, waiting until the news conference after her final match of the season, in Singapore in October, to reveal the diagnosis.
“I didn’t want to give anyone the edge,” Wozniacki said.
She rejected the notion that a full disclosure of her health woes would have benefited her by moderating external expectations.
“I think because I’m such a competitor, I don’t want anything to be an excuse,” Wozniacki said, adding: “I know myself and what I’ve done out there. I’m either proud of myself for giving it my all, or I can be disappointed because I thought I could do better, but I don’t really need the sympathy.”
Wozniacki followed her Australian Open title with two more victories, in a pre-Wimbledon tuneup at Eastbourne in June and a Premier Mandatory event in Beijing in October — both, she said, while exhibiting one or more of the textbook symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. The Beijing win was especially satisfying, Wozniacki said, “because I didn’t know, will I ever be able to play six matches in a row? That really gave me the confidence, you know, if I can do this I can do anything.”
After Wimbledon, where Wozniacki lost in the second round, the rest of her summer passed in a fog of inconclusive doctor visits and inexplicable early-round losses. Wozniacki withdrew from the tournament in Washington because of pain in her knees. In her next tournament, in Montreal, she lost to Aryna Sabalenka in her first match and awoke the next morning unable to lift her arms to brush her teeth. From there, it was on to Cincinnati, where she retired after the first set of her first match because she couldn’t find the energy to soldier on.
Everywhere Wozniacki went, she saw doctors, she said, who proclaimed her fit and sent her away with medication for a head cold or influenza.
“The doctors did blood tests, but they weren’t addressing the inflammation, which was the weird thing,” said Wozniacki, who found it stranger still that after years of wearing opponents down with her fitness, she was the one tiring first in her matches.
From Cincinnati, Wozniacki traveled to New York, where she maintains an apartment, and insisted on undergoing a comprehensive battery of tests, one of which came back positive for rheumatoid arthritis. Wozniacki was relieved finally to have a diagnosis but refrained from reading up on the disease, she said, because she wanted to focus on the United States Open.
After her second-round loss to Lesia Tsurenko, Wozniacki typed “rheumatoid arthritis” into a search engine on her phone during the ride back to her apartment and quickly educated herself on this new and formidable opponent. She made an appointment to see a New York-based rheumatologist, who assuaged her fears.
“She said a lot of people she works with can live a normal life with it,” Wozniacki said.
Of course, Wozniacki’s physically challenging, globe-trotting existence is nobody’s idea of a normal life.
“I asked her: ‘What about my tennis? What about my career?’” Wozniacki said. “And she said, ‘Don’t worry, we’re going to figure it out.’”
In Monday’s match, Wozniacki expressed surprise at Van Uytvanck’s tactic of hitting drop shots from behind the baseline, as if to test her speed and stamina.
But Wozniacki figured it out and hit a few back for winners. “I’m like, ‘Wow, I actually got to them, hit it well, I kind of complimented myself on a couple of them,” she said with a laugh, not bothering to disguise her delight in showing how much life is left in her wheels.



Supported by
ByChristopher Clarey
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — After another day of big serves and topspin forehands in the desert sunshine, just about everyone appeared to get what they wanted: a 39th match between Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal.
The question is, will it actually happen?
Federer, despite being the elder at 37, looks readier to rumble. Between Dubai and Indian Wells, he has won nine straight matches and 15 straight sets and artfully and uneventfully dispatched the unseeded Hubert Hurkacz, 6-4, 6-4, in Friday’s first quarterfinal of the BNP Paribas Open.
But Nadal had to dig much deeper to wriggle free of the firm grip and aggressive game of Karen Khachanov, the brawny young Russian who pushed him hard in the third round of last year’s United States Open.
This time, Nadal prevailed, 7-6 (2), 7-6 (2), but only after Khachanov stretched him repeatedly with huge serves and whipping forehands and only after Nadal needed on-court treatment and tape for pain in his long-troublesome right knee.
And there lies the problem with planning your day or, depending on the time zone, your night around watching No. 39.
Nadal remains one of the greatest, in-the-moment competitors in any sport, but his recent record in hardcourt tournaments is a downbeat litany of withdrawals, retirements and anticlimaxes.
It remains an open question if he will feel hearty enough to play Saturday afternoon’s semifinal. He does not have a day off to recover. He also has the rest of the 2019 season to consider, including his sacrosanct season within a season on clay that is scheduled to start next month in Monte Carlo.
“Of course my goal and my idea is to be ready for tomorrow,” Nadal said after pursing his lips and shaking his head.
But he also knows from long experience with patellar tendinitis that being ready is no sure thing.
“I cannot guarantee how I will feel when I wake up tomorrow,” he said. “But the desire to play a match like this against Federer is always very special, and it’s even more special if we’re both at a high level and at 100 percent. Hopefully it will be that way, above all for me but also for the fans on site and for fans in general. I hope I will be able to play aggressively. I need to be ready to react very quickly and to have everything in place to be able to succeed. If not, it will be very difficult.”
Nadal and Federer first played in Miami in 2004, but they have not met since October 2017, when Federer beat Nadal in the final of the Shanghai Masters. Federer went 5-0 against Nadal in 2017, a resurgent season for both men, after upgrading his ability to attack with his single-handed backhand.
That run of success has narrowed the big edge that Nadal once held in their rivalry; he now leads by 23-15.
“I don’t think those five matches matter that much, to be honest,” Federer said of the 2017 victories. “A lot of time has gone by, unfortunately maybe for the rivalry for us, or for me. It’s always better to keep on maybe playing against him.”
Federer started this season by failing to retain his title at the Australian Open but has responded by going on a roll. After winning his 100th career title in Dubai, Federer is now two victories from his 101st. To get there, he may first have to deal with the man who has been his friendly rival for 15 years and who remains a friend: The two had coffee at Federer’s rented home last week to discuss the state of the tennis world.
“Different styles, different ways to understand the sport,” Nadal said. “And at the same time, two players with a good relationship after all the things that we went through in our careers, competing for the most important things.”
In his first match against Hurkacz, a rangy and powerful 22-year-old from Poland, Federer looked loose from the start as he tested the full range of his skill set.
There was the usual: wickedly sliced backhands, blocked returns and first serve-forehand combination punches. There was also the unusual: chip and charge tactics, serve-and-volley on second serve and no-look flicked backhand overheads.
But it will be hard to be quite so relaxed and experimental against Nadal, whose ability (when healthy) to extend rallies and take command of them with his left-handed, topspin forehand is an entirely different, though much more familiar, challenge.
The two did not play any of the same regular ATP Tour events in 2018, and they did not face off in the three Grand Slam tournaments that they both played: the Australian Open, Wimbledon and the United States Open.
Federer was asked if, after all these years, the matchup with Nadal still gave him more of a thrill than facing an unknown rising player.
“I think a combination,” he said. “If it was only Rafa, I wouldn’t enjoy that as well. I think having the mix is the magic really for me. Playing against young guys to eventually get to Rafa, that’s exciting.”
It was quite an achievement for Nadal to get to Federer through the 22-year-old Khachanov. He was visibly hampered by his knee trouble, which first required treatment on court with Khachanov leading by 2-1 in the second set. Visibly slower and unable to push off as powerfully with his legs to serve, he still found a way to grind and win.
“It’s a special victory considering the way I was feeling,” Nadal said.
Playing with pain has unfortunately become close to the rule on hardcourts for Nadal, who has long complained and warned about the physical toll of hardcourt play.
Nadal, 32, conceded that part of the problem was playing more than 1,100 matches in his career, not just playing on hardcourts. But he also pointed out that other sports tended to be played regularly on grass or on other more forgiving surfaces.
“I love to play on hard, but probably my body doesn’t love it that much,” he said. “And my feeling is there are a lot of players that love to play on hard, true, but their bodies don’t love to play on hard, either.”
He is also concerned about the price he and others might pay in retirement. “When I see some old legends walking around the tour,” he said, “it’s tough.”



Supported by
ByKaren Crouse
MELBOURNE, Australia — There’s no rewinding the results in sports, as New Orleans fans still fuming about last week’s N.F.C. Championship game can attest. But sometimes, as Sam Stosur proved Friday at the Australian Open, it is possible to get it right the second time.
In 2006, Stosur, a Queenslander playing in the women’s doubles final in her home Grand Slam, lost her service while attempting to close out the match in the second set. Stosur and her doubles partner, Lisa Raymond, squandered two championship points on their way to a three-set defeat to the Chinese team of Yan Zi and Zheng Jie.
Thirteen years later, Stosur was back in the women’s doubles final, this time alongside China’s Zhang Shuai. They were playing the defending champions, Timea Babos and Kristina Mladenovic, and again Stosur was serving in the second set to close out the match.
Stosur earned a championship point, which she squandered with a double fault. But the past doesn’t have to be prologue. On the next point, Stosur produced an overhead winner to end a 25-shot rally. Then she watched the 13th shot of the next point sail long, near her feet, to seal her 6-3, 6-4 victory with Zhang at Rod Laver Arena.
It was sweet redemption for Stosur, not only because of her near miss in 2006 but also because of all her quick exits here in the singles competition. Since defeating Serena Williams in the final to win the 2011 United States Open, Stosur, 34, has exited in the first round in singles in this tournament five times, including the past four years.
Stosur held her head high after her latest opening-round defeat, last week in straight sets to Dayana Yastremska, an 18-year-old from Ukraine, of whom she said, “I think she’s going to be a very good player.”
Stosur, who won the mixed doubles here in 2005 with Scott Draper, immediately turned her attention to the women’s doubles. “I think probably for any singles player, playing doubles can almost feel more relaxing or more fun,” she said.
In Zhang, Stosur found a partner whose wit is as sharp as her net play. She kept Stosur loose — and occasionally made her laugh out loud — with her on-court comments. “If we could transfer that a little bit into the singles court, that would be a good thing,” Stosur said.
Zhang, 30, had exited in the first round in singles in all 14 majors she had played and was contemplating retirement in early 2016 when Stosur sent her a long and passionate text encouraging her to continue playing. Zhang then advanced to the quarterfinals in singles at the 2016 Australian Open as a qualifier — still her best finish in singles in a major — and now, on the strength of Stosur’s powers of persuasion, she can call herself a Grand Slam champion.
“Really important message,” Zhang said, smiling, of Stosur’s long-ago text.
These two weeks, Zhang added, have been the most “amazing in my life.”
Stosur said she had been in communication with Raymond, who told her the other night in a text: “Go get it 13 years later. Get it now.” Stosur said, “That was really nice.”
The stands were roughly half full for the final but wholly behind Stosur and Zhang, ringing the stadium with chants of “Aussie, Aussie, Aussie, Oy, Oy, Oy.”
“You guys definitely are in a good mood right now,” Mladenovic said to the crowd during the on-court trophy presentation. “That was not our goal.”
The walk from the court to the locker room took Stosur and Zhang nearly as long as Stosur’s opening service game, which lasted 10 minutes, because every few steps she was stopped by well-wishers. Tournament workers applauded when Stosur emerged from a media-center elevator, and she received more applause from reporters as soon as she stepped inside the main interview room.
“I think to be able to play at home is super exciting,” Stosur said. “I can feel my phone going off every two seconds at the moment. It’s great to know that the support’s there from everyone that’s close to you, but also feeling it from people you don’t even know who are happy and excited, it’s an amazing feeling.”


